19690790	Contaminant accumulation analysis is important in the study of sentinels. This research determined cadmium accumulation and bioconcentration factors of whole organism, liver, kidney, ovary and testis of Fejervarya limnocharis exposed to different environmental cadmium levels. Frogs from contaminated sites had significantly higher hepatic (1.939 mg/kg), renal (7.253 mg/kg) and testicular (1.462 mg/kg) cadmium than those from the reference sites (0.205, 0.783 and 0.379 mg/kg, respectively). Cadmium accumulation was the highest during the late dry and early rainy seasons. If this species is used as a sentinel for cadmium accumulation, the utilization of its whole organism, liver, kidney and testis is appropriate.
19690975	Transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Pusa basmati 1), overexpressing the Rs-AFP2 defensin gene from the Raphanus sativus was generated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation. Expression levels of Rs-AFP2 ranged from 0.45 to 0.53% of total soluble protein in transgenic plants. It was observed that constitutive expression of Rs-AFP2 suppresses the growth of Magnaporthe oryzae and Rhizoctonia solani by 77 and 45%, respectively. No effect on plant morphology was observed in the Rs-AFP2 expressing rice lines. The inhibitory activity of protein extracts prepared from leaves of Rs-AFP2 plants on the in vitro growth of M. oryzae indicated that the Rs-AFP2 protein produced by transgenic rice plants was biologically active. Transgene expression of Rs-AFP2 was not accompanied by an induction of pathogenesis-related (PR) gene expression, suggesting that the expression of Rs-AFP2 directly inhibits the pathogens. Here, we demonstrate that transgenic rice plants expressing the Rs-AFP2 gene show enhanced resistance to M. oryzae and R. solani, two of the most important pathogens of rice.
19691286	Porphyromonas gingivalis is known to be a major etiologic agent in the onset and progression of chronic periodontitis. Among various virulence factors that this bacterium produces, Arg- and Lys-specific cysteine proteinases (gingipains) are believed to be major determinants of the pathogenicity of P. gingivalis. Here, we report on our finding that there are inhibitors of these cysteine proteinases in a rice protein fraction. Comprehensive affinity chromatography and MS analyses resulted in the identification of 17 Arg-gingipain (Rgp)-interacting proteins in the rice endosperm. Of these, four proteins (i.e., a 26 kDa globulin, a plant lipid transfer/trypsin-alpha amylase inhibitor, the RA17 seed allergen, and an alpha amylase/trypsin inhibitor) were estimated to account for 90% of the Rgp inhibitory activity in the rice protein fraction, using a two-dimensional gel system of double-layer reverse zymography. In addition, a synthetic peptide derived from an Rgp-interacting protein, cyanate hydratase, could inhibit the growth of P. gingivalis and showed inhibitory activity against both the Arg- and Lys-gingipains. These results suggest that these rice proteins may be useful as nutraceutical ingredients for the prevention and management of periodontal diseases.
19692534	Chromosome 1H (approximately 622 Mb) of barley (Hordeum vulgare) was isolated by flow sorting and shotgun sequenced by GSFLX pyrosequencing to 1.3-fold coverage. Fluorescence in situ hybridization and stringent sequence comparison against genetically mapped barley genes revealed 95% purity of the sorted chromosome 1H fraction. Sequence comparison against the reference genomes of rice (Oryza sativa) and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and against wheat (Triticum aestivum) and barley expressed sequence tag datasets led to the estimation of 4,600 to 5,800 genes on chromosome 1H, and 38,000 to 48,000 genes in the whole barley genome. Conserved gene content between chromosome 1H and known syntenic regions of rice chromosomes 5 and 10, and of sorghum chromosomes 1 and 9 was detected on a per gene resolution. Informed by the syntenic relationships between the two reference genomes, genic barley sequence reads were integrated and ordered to deduce a virtual gene map of barley chromosome 1H. We demonstrate that synteny-based analysis of low-pass shotgun sequenced flow-sorted Triticeae chromosomes can deliver linearly ordered high-resolution gene inventories of individual chromosomes, which complement extensive Triticeae expressed sequence tag datasets. Thus, integration of genomic, transcriptomic, and synteny-derived information represents a major step toward developing reference sequences of chromosomes and complete genomes of the most important plant tribe for mankind.
19693073
19693083	Living organisms must acquire new biological functions to adapt to changing and hostile environments. Deepwater rice has evolved and adapted to flooding by acquiring the ability to significantly elongate its internodes, which have hollow structures and function as snorkels to allow gas exchange with the atmosphere, and thus prevent drowning. Many physiological studies have shown that the phytohormones ethylene, gibberellin and abscisic acid are involved in this response, but the gene(s) responsible for this trait has not been identified. Here we show the molecular mechanism of deepwater response through the identification of the genes SNORKEL1 and SNORKEL2, which trigger deepwater response by encoding ethylene response factors involved in ethylene signalling. Under deepwater conditions, ethylene accumulates in the plant and induces expression of these two genes. The products of SNORKEL1 and SNORKEL2 then trigger remarkable internode elongation via gibberellin. We also demonstrate that the introduction of three quantitative trait loci from deepwater rice into non-deepwater rice enabled the latter to become deepwater rice. This discovery will contribute to rice breeding in lowland areas that are frequently flooded during the rainy season.
19695510	To evaluate weight, dietary patterns and exercise habits in children attending the first year of primary school in the city of Granollers (Spain). We performed a cross-sectional study of children enrolled in the schools of the city of Granollers. All the children were born in 2000. Data were collected from September to October 2006. Weight and height were measured in each schoolchild. The parents completed a questionnaire on the frequency of food intake and physical activity and the Krece Plus test. The International Obesity Task Force cut-offs for body mass index were used to define overweight and obesity. A total of 566 schoolchildren were included. The prevalence of overweight was 19.6% and that of obesity was 8.5%. Only 3.8% of the children had an adequate breakfast and 17.1% ate five portions of fruit and vegetables a day. Some families consumed a low amount of fruit (22%), vegetables (37%), bread/pasta/ rice/cereals (14%), fish (32%), legumes (13%) and nuts (9%). Children who had lunch at school ate more fruits (38% vs 29%), vegetables (35% vs 25%) and fish (82% vs 73%) than those who did not have lunch at school. A total of 82% of the schoolchildren exercised regularly. A quarter of the children who participated in the study were overweight. The schoolchildren who had lunch at school had better dietary patterns. Inappropriate family habits can determine children's dietary habits.
19696317
19696351	Blast disease is a devastating fungal disease of rice, one of the world's staple foods. Race-specific resistance to blast disease has usually not been durable. Here, we report the cloning of a previously unknown type of gene that confers non-race-specific resistance and its successful use in breeding. Pi21 encodes a proline-rich protein that includes a putative heavy metal-binding domain and putative protein-protein interaction motifs. Wild-type Pi21 appears to slow the plant's defense responses, which may support optimization of defense mechanisms. Deletions in its proline-rich motif inhibit this slowing. Pi21 is separable from a closely linked gene conferring poor flavor. The resistant pi21 allele, which is found in some strains of japonica rice, could improve blast resistance of rice worldwide.
19697058	Rice is a poor source of micronutrients such as iron and zinc. To help clarify the molecular mechanisms that regulate metal mobilization from leaves to developing seeds, we conducted suppression subtractive hybridization analysis in flag leaves of two rice cultivars. Flag leaves are the major source of remobilized metals for developing seeds. We isolated 78 sequences up-regulated in flag leaves at the grain filling stage relative to the panicle exertion stage. Differential expression of selected genes (encoding 7 transport proteins, the OsNAS3 enzyme and the OsNAC5 transcription factor) was confirmed by quantitative RT-PCR. We show that OsNAC5 expression is up-regulated by natural (aging) and induced senescence processes (dark, ABA application, high salinity, cold and Fe-deficiency) and its expression is not affected in the presence of 6-benzylaminopurine (a senescence inhibitor) under dark-induced senescence. Salt induction of OsNAC5 expression is abolished by nicotinamide, an inhibitor of ABA effects. This result and the presence of cis-acting elements in the promoter region of the OsNAC5 gene suggest an ABA-dependent regulation. Using four different rice cultivars, we show that OsNAC5 up-regulation is higher and earlier in flag leaves and panicles of IR75862 plants, which have higher seed concentrations of Fe, Zn and protein. We suggest that OsNAC5 is a novel senescence-associated ABA-dependent NAC transcription factor and its function could be related to Fe, Zn and amino acids remobilization from green tissues to seeds.
19697141	Cellulose synthase (CESA) is a critical catalytic subunit of the cellulose synthase complex responsible for glucan chain elongation. Our knowledge about how CESA functions is still very limited. Here, we report the functional characterization of a rice mutant, brittle culm11, that shows growth retardation and dramatically reduced plant strength. Map-based cloning revealed that all the mutant phenotypes result from a missense mutation in OsCESA4 (G858R), a highly conserved residue at the end of the fifth transmembrane domain. The aberrant secondary cell wall of the mutant plants is attributed to significantly reduced cellulose content, abnormal secondary wall structure of sclerenchyma cells, and overall altered wall composition, as detected by chemical analyses and immunochemical staining. Importantly, we have found that this point mutation decreases the abundance of OsCESA4 in the plasma membrane, probably due to a defect in the process of CESA complex secretion. The data from our biochemical, genetic, and pharmacological analyses indicate that this residue is critical for maintaining the normal level of CESA proteins in the plasma membrane.
19697339	Recently, beauvericin (BEA) has been recognized as an important toxic compound synthesized by several Fusarium strains, infecting maize, wheat, and rice, worldwide. The effects of BEA on mammalian cells have been studied; however, its effects on the function of host plant cells are largely unknown. The purpose of our work was to assess whether BEA can affect the root and leaf cells of wheat cultivar (cv.) 'Arina' seedlings, using a cytotoxicity assay and fluorescence microscopy. Toxigenicity during wheat germination was higher in BEA-treated wheat seedlings than in non-treated seedlings (control). Leaf primordial, situated at the base and the tips of treated leaves, were more affected by BEA compared to the control when assayed in medium for cell viability measured by luminescent equipment. BEA-Treated plant cells secrete adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to the extracellular matrix and invoke more luminescence by luciferase than the non-treated seedlings. Our results were confirmed by fluorescence microscopy following '4',6-diamidino-2-phenylindole' (DAPI) staining and by confocal microscopy. In addition, the bioluminescent protein luciferase was observed in the intracellular space indicating presence of ATP. The incidence of nuclear fragmentation increased significantly in cells of seedlings treated with BEA at 40 microM concentration implying that the intracellular phytotoxin BEA plays an important role, possibly as a mediator in cell-death signalling.
19697508	The aim of this study was to investigate changing mechanical properties of the bolus during mastication and to quantify mechanical properties of the final bolus at swallowing. Changing mechanical properties of the bolus of three different types of foods (rice cracker, cheese and peanuts) by twelve normal dentitions were investigated by principal component analysis (PCA) on six mechanical properties (rupture energy, elasticity, viscosity, hardness, cohesiveness and adhesiveness). The raw data of cohesiveness immediately before swallowing was always constant. In all three food samples, the results by PCA on six parameters indicated that cohesiveness was independent from the remaining five parameters, and two factors were extracted on these five parameters by PCA. Furthermore, factor structure of bolus at swallowing showed no difference between the three food samples in spite of the variations in the raw data. The mechanical properties of swallowable bolus were clarified for the first time.
19698139	Well preserved genomic colinearity among agronomically important grass species such as rice, maize, Sorghum, wheat and barley provides access to whole-genome structure information even in species lacking a reference genome sequence. We investigated footprints of whole-genome duplication (WGD) in barley that shaped the cereal ancestor genome by analyzing shared synteny with rice using a approximately 2000 gene-based barley genetic map and the rice genome reference sequence. Based on a recent annotation of the rice genome, we reviewed the WGD in rice and identified 24 pairs of duplicated genomic segments involving 70% of the rice genome. Using 968 putative orthologous gene pairs, synteny covered 89% of the barley genetic map and 63% of the rice genome. We found strong evidence for seven shared segmental genome duplications, corresponding to more than 50% of the segmental genome duplications previously determined in rice. Analysis of synonymous substitution rates (Ks) suggested that shared duplications originated before the divergence of these two species. While major genome rearrangements affected the ancestral genome of both species, small paracentric inversions were found to be species specific. We provide a thorough analysis of comparative genome evolution between barley and rice. A barley genetic map of approximately 2000 non-redundant EST sequences provided sufficient density to allow a detailed view of shared synteny with the rice genome. Using an indirect approach that included the localization of WGD-derived duplicated genome segments in the rice genome, we determined the current extent of shared WGD-derived genome duplications that occurred prior to species divergence.
19699071	Some nutraceuticals are prescribed as lipid-lowering substances. However, doubts remain about their efficacy. We evaluated the effects of a nutraceutical combination (NC), consisting of 500 mg berberine, 200mg red yeast rice and 10mg policosanols, on cholesterol levels and endothelial function in patients with hypercholesterolemia. In this single centre, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 50 hypercholesterolemic patients (26 males and 24 females, mean age 55±7 years, total cholesterol 6.55±0.75 mmol/l, BMI 28±3.5) were randomized to 6 weeks of treatment with a daily oral dose of NC (25 patients) or placebo (25 patients). In a subsequent open-label extension of 4 weeks, the whole sample received NC. The main outcome measure was decrease total cholesterol (C) levels in the NC arm. Secondary outcome measures were decreased low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and triglyceride levels, and improved endothelial-dependent flow-mediated dilation (FMD) and insulin sensitivity in relation to NC. Evaluation of absolute changes from baseline showed significant reductions in NC versus placebo for C and LDL-C (C: -1.14±0.88 and -0.03±0.78 mmol/l, p<0.001; LDL-C: -1.06±0.75 and -00.4±0.54 mmol/l, p<0.001), and a significant improvement of FMD (3±4% and 0±3% respectively, p<0.05). After the extension phase, triglyceride levels decreased significantly from 1.57±0.77 to 1.26±0.63 mmol/l, p<0.05 and insulin sensitivity improved in a patient subgroup with insulin resistance at baseline (HOMA: from 3.3±0.4 to 2.5±1.3, p<0.05). No adverse effect was reported. This NC reduces cholesterol levels. The reduction is associated with improved endothelial function and insulin sensitivity.
19699122	The chemical composition and ultrastructure of urinary calculi obtained from male Boer goats were studied using qualitative chemical analysis, scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction, X-ray energy dispersive spectrometry and Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy. The calculi came from 10 naturally-occurring cases of urolithiasis and from seven cases of urolithiasis experimentally-induced by feeding a cottonseed meal-rice straw diet supplemented with magnesium oxide. The results indicated that the major component of urinary calculi collected from naturally-occurring and experimentally-induced cases of urolithiasis was struvite (magnesium ammonium phosphate). The study also identified previously unreported prismatic crystals in the uroliths of goats, similar to struvite but rich in potassium. The characteristic ultrastructure of struvite uroliths is described along with a brief discussion of their formation.
1969930	Six bioassays were performed to evaluate the efficacy of the fungus, Lagenidium giganteum, against mosquitoes in water collected from 75 sources. The fungus infected larvae of 4 genera and produced greater than 90% mortality in water from some of the creeks, artificial containers and the wild rice field tested during 4 of the assays. There was no larval mortality due to the fungus in water from irrigated pastures or marshes. Water quality parameters associated with L. giganteum infection varied among the bioassays; low measurements of total dissolved solids (TDS), hardness (CaCO3), conductivity, chemical oxygen demand (COD), ammonium nitrogen (NH3-N), phosphate (PO4) and salinity were significantly (P less than 0.05) correlated with fungal efficacy in one or more of the assays. Regression analyses selected TDS, CaCO3, COD, NH3-N and/or PO4 as the best predictors of larval mortality due to L. giganteum. Turbidity and pH were not correlated with fungal efficacy.
1969931	Granular, liquid and briquette formulations of Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis were tested in small rice plots during 1984-88 against Psorophora columbiae larvae. Vectobac AS, Skeetal G, Teknar HPD, ABG 6172, ABG 6188, ABG 6193, ABG 6197, ABG 6199, ABG 6138F and ABG 6221 provided excellent control at high dosages and good control (generally greater than 85%) at relatively low concentrations. ABG 6221 and ABG 6172 provided excellent control at low concentrations. Additional testing of these formulations will be required to ascertain specific lower limits such that more economical larval mosquito control can be obtained.
19699315	The weatherloach, Misgurnus anguillicaudatus, is a freshwater, facultative air-breathing fish that lives in streams and rice paddy fields, where it may experience drought and/or high environmental ammonia (HEA) conditions. The aim of this study was to determine what roles branchial Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase, H(+)-ATPase, and Rhcg have in ammonia tolerance and how the weatherloach copes with ammonia loading conditions. The loach's high ammonia tolerance was confirmed as was evident from its high 96 h LC(50) value and high tissue tolerance to ammonia. The weatherloach does not appear to make use of Na(+)/NH(4)(+)-ATPase facilitated transport to excrete ammonia when exposed to HEA or to high environmental pH since no changes in activity were observed. Using immunofluorescence microscopy, distinct populations of vacuolar (V)-type H(+)-ATPase and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase immunoreactive cells were identified in branchial epithelia, with apical and basolateral staining patterns, respectively. Rhesus C glycoprotein (Rhcg1), an ammonia transport protein, immunoreactivity was also found in a similar pattern as H(+)-ATPase. Rhcg1 (Slc42a3) mRNA expression also increased significantly during aerial exposure, although not significantly under ammonia loading conditions. The colocalization of H(+)-ATPase and Rhcg1 to the similar non-Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase immunoreactive cell type would support a role for H(+)-ATPase in ammonia excretion via Rhcg by NH(4)(+) trapping. The importance of gill boundary layer acidification in net ammonia excretion was confirmed in this fish; however, it was not associated with an increase in H(+)-ATPase expression, since tissue activity and protein levels did not increase with high environmental pH and/or HEA. However the V-ATPase inhibitor, bafilomycin, did decrease net ammonia flux whereas other ion transport inhibitors (amiloride, SITS) had no effect. H(+)-ATPase inhibition also resulted in a consequent elevation in plasma ammonia levels and a decrease in the net acid flux. In gill, aerial exposure was also associated with a significant increase in membrane fluidity (or increase in permeability) which would presumably enhance NH(3) permeation through the plasma membrane. Taken together, these results indicate the gill of the weatherloach is responsive to aerial conditions that would aid ammonia excretion.
19699509	The arsenic (As) concentrations in the groundwater of alluvial plains generally show high spatial variability. We geochemically explore the factors causing the spatial variability in an alluvial plain that is mainly used for rice cultivation, the commonest land-use pattern in alluvial plains of Asia. We investigate the chemical processes, sources of chemicals that affect the behavior of As, and their relationships with the geologic conditions at seven multilevel sampler sites. All sites showed As concentrations that increased with depth at shallow levels and decreased at greater depths, which is the typical vertical pattern in alluvial aquifers where Fe-(hydr)oxide reduction is the major As release mechanism. Data show that NO(3) and SO(4) originating from the land surface play important roles in suppressing the increase in As concentration by buffering the redox potential at shallow depths and by precipitating As with sulfide minerals at deep depths, respectively. The As concentration in the intermediate depth range was also low in the presence of SO(4), because its reduction can occur together with Fe-(hydr)oxide reduction in a wide range of redox potentials. As a result, the maximum As concentrations at the sites where the land was covered with a thick silt layer (approximately 5m) were 3- to 5-times higher than those at other sites due to the supply of NO(3) and SO(4) from land surface being largely limited by the silt layer. This indicates that the surface geology could be an important indicator for the As concentration in alluvial groundwater.
19699646	To develop a specific inhibitor of abscisic acid (ABA) 8'-hydroxylase, a key enzyme in the catabolism of ABA, a plant hormone involved in stress tolerance, seed dormancy, and other various physiological events, we designed and synthesized conformationally restricted analogues of uniconazole (UNI), a well-known plant growth retardant, which inhibits a biosynthetic enzyme (ent-kaurene oxidase) of gibberellin as well as ABA 8'-hydroxylase. Although most of these analogues were less effective than UNI in inhibition of ABA 8'-hydroxylase and rice seedling growth, we found that a lactol-bridged analogue with an imidazole is a potent inhibitor of ABA 8'-hydroxylase but not of plant growth. This compound, abscinazole-F1, induced drought tolerance in apple seedlings upon spray treatment with a 10 microM solution.
19700032	Cooking processes that gelatinize granules or disrupt structure might increase the glucose and insulin responses because a disruption of the structure of starch by gelatinization increases its availability for digestion and absorption in the small intestine. We hypothesized that the uncooked form of rice, which has a relatively low degree of gelatinization even though in powder form, would result in lower metabolic glucose and insulin responses compared with cooked rice (CR). To assess the effects of the gelatinization of rice on metabolic response of glucose and insulin, we investigated the glucose and insulin responses to 3 rice meals of different gelatinization degree in female college students (n = 12): CR (76.9% gelatinized), uncooked rice powder (UP; 3.5% gelatinized), and uncooked freeze-dried rice powder (UFP; 5.4% gelatinized). Uncooked rice powders (UP and UFP) induced lower glucose and insulin responses compared with CR. The relatively low gelatinization degree of UPs resulted in low metabolic responses in terms of the glycemic index (CR: 72.4% vs UP: 49.7%, UFP: 59.8%) and insulin index (CR: 94.8% vs UP: 74.4%, UFP: 68.0%). In summary, UPs that were less gelatinized than CR induced low postprandial glucose and insulin responses.
19700447	Wetlands are species-rich habitats performing valuable ecosystem services such as flood protection, water quality enhancement, food chain support and carbon sequestration. Worldwide, wetlands have been drained to convert them into agricultural land or industrial and urban areas. A realistic estimate is that 50 % of the world's wetlands have been lost. This paper reviews the relationship between wetlands and agriculture with the aim to identify the successes and failures of agricultural use in different types of wetlands, with reference to short-term and long-term benefits and issues of sustainability. It also addresses a number of recent developments which will lead to pressure to reclaim and destroy natural wetlands, i.e. the continuous need for higher production to feed an increasing world population and the increasing cultivation of energy crops. Finally, attention is paid to the development of more flood-tolerant crop cultivars. Agriculture has been carried out in several types of (former) wetlands for millennia, with crop fields on river floodplain soils and rice fields as major examples. However, intensive agricultural use of drained/reclaimed peatlands has been shown to lead to major problems because of the oxidation and subsidence of the peat soil. This does not only lead to severe carbon dioxide emissions, but also results in low-lying land which needs to be protected against flooding. Developments in South-East Asia, where vast areas of tropical peatlands are being converted into oil palm plantations, are of great concern in this respect. Although more flood-tolerant cultivars of commercial crop species are being developed, these are certainly not suitable for cultivation in wetlands with prolonged flooding periods, but rather will survive relatively short periods of waterlogging in normally improved agricultural soils. From a sustainability perspective, reclamation of peatlands for agriculture should be strongly discouraged. The opportunities for agriculture in naturally functioning floodplains should be further investigated. The development and use of crop cultivars with an even stronger flood tolerance could form part of the sustainable use of such floodplain systems. Extensive use of wetlands without drastic reclamation measures and without fertilizer and pesticides might result in combinations of food production with other wetland services, with biodiversity remaining more or less intact. There is a need for research by agronomists and environmental scientists to optimize such solutions.
19700558	Although allelic diversity of genes has been reported to play important roles in different physiological processes, information on allelic diversity of defense-responsive genes in host-pathogen interactions is limited. Here, we report that a pair of allelic genes, OsWRKY45-1 and OsWRKY45-2, which encode proteins with a 10-amino acid difference, play opposite roles in rice (Oryza sativa) resistance against bacterial pathogens. Bacterial blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae (Xoo), bacterial streak caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzicola (Xoc), and fungal blast caused by Magnaporthe grisea are devastating diseases of rice worldwide. OsWRKY45-1-overexpressing plants showed increased susceptibility and OsWRKY45-1-knockout plants showed enhanced resistance to Xoo and Xoc. In contrast, OsWRKY45-2-overexpressing plants showed enhanced resistance and OsWRKY45-2-suppressing plants showed increased susceptibility to Xoo and Xoc. Interestingly, both OsWRKY45-1- and OsWRKY45-2-overexpressing plants showed enhanced resistance to M. grisea. OsWRKY45-1-regulated Xoo resistance was accompanied by increased accumulation of salicylic acid and jasmonic acid and induced expression of a subset of defense-responsive genes, while OsWRKY45-2-regulated Xoo resistance was accompanied by increased accumulation of jasmonic acid but not salicylic acid and induced expression of another subset of defense-responsive genes. These results suggest that both OsWRKY45-1 and OsWRKY45-2 are positive regulators in rice resistance against M. grisea, but the former is a negative regulator and the latter is a positive regulator in rice resistance against Xoo and Xoc. The opposite roles of the two allelic genes in rice-Xoo interaction appear to be due to their mediation of different defense signaling pathways.
19700562	The phytohormone auxin plays a critical role for plant growth by regulating the expression of a set of genes. One large auxin-responsive gene family of this type is the small auxin-up RNA (SAUR) genes, although their function is largely unknown. The expression of the rice (Oryza sativa) SAUR39 gene showed rapid induction by transient change in different environmental factors, including auxin, nitrogen, salinity, cytokinin, and anoxia. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing the SAUR39 gene resulted in lower shoot and root growth, altered shoot morphology, smaller vascular tissue, and lower yield compared with wild-type plants. The SAUR39 gene was expressed at higher levels in older leaves, unlike auxin biosynthesis, which occurs largely in the meristematic region. The transgenic plants had a lower auxin level and a reduced polar auxin transport as well as the down-regulation of some putative auxin biosynthesis and transporter genes. Biochemical analysis also revealed that transgenic plants had lower chlorophyll content, higher levels of anthocyanin, abscisic acid, sugar, and starch, and faster leaf senescence compared with wild-type plants at the vegetative stage. Most of these phenomena have been shown to be negatively correlated with auxin level and transport. Transcript profiling revealed that metabolic perturbations in overexpresser plants were largely due to transcriptional changes of genes involved in photosynthesis, senescence, chlorophyll production, anthocyanin accumulation, sugar synthesis, and transport. The lower growth and yield of overexpresser plants was largely recovered by exogenous auxin application. Taken together, the results suggest that SAUR39 acts as a negative regulator for auxin synthesis and transport.
19701135	The determination of gamma-nonalactone as one of the important odor-active compounds in freshly cooked non-scented rice is reported. It was evaluated by gas chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) analysis and identified by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) analysis in the headspace above the freshly cooked non-scented rice samples extracted by using a modified headspace solid-phase microextraction (SPME) method. This component had a mass spectrum with a characteristic ion peak at m/z 85 (100%) and a linear retention index (RI) of 2,023 on a DB Wax column, consistent with those of an authentic sample of gamma-nonalactone. The odor characterization of a strong, sweet, coconut-like aroma of this compound was also validated by GC-O comparison with the authentic compound.
19701612	The optimization of process parameters for high amylase production by Saccharomycopsis fibuligera A11 in solid-state fermentation was carried out using central composite design. Finally, the optimal parameters obtained with the response surface methodology (RSM) were moisture 610.0 ml/kg, inoculum 30.0 ml (OD(600 nm) = 20.0)/kg, the amount ratio of wheat bran to rice husk 0.42, cassava starch concentration 20.0 g/kg, temperature 28 degrees C, and natural pH. Under the optimized conditions, 4,296 U/g of dry substrate of amylase activity was reached in the solid-state fermentation culture of the yeast strain A11 within 160 h, whereas the predicted maximum amylase activity of 4,222 U/g of dry substrate of amylase activity was derived from the RSM regression. It was found that cassava starch can be actively converted into monosaccharides and oligosaccharides by the crude amylase.
19701685	X1-homologous genes (XHS) encode plant-specific proteins containing three major domains (XH, XS, zf-XS), but their functions are largely unknown. We report the systematic identification and characterization of XHS genes in the rice genome. Eleven putative XHS protein sequences (OXHS1-11) were identified in the sequenced genome of Oryza sativa japonica cv. Nipponbare, and these sequences, along with other plant XHS homologues, were classified into five subgroups based on phylogenetic analysis. Distinct diversification of the XHS proteins occurred between monocotyledon and dicotyledon plants. The OXHS family has diverse exon-intron structures and organizations of putative domains and motifs. The OXHS proteins showed no transactivation activity, and no interaction between the XH domain and the XS domain in yeast. Four representative OXHS proteins were targeted to cytoplasm, which contradicts the previous speculation that XHS proteins are putative transcription factors. All the OXHS genes are predominantly expressed in floral organs, and some are expressed in a wide range of tissues or organs in indica rice Minghui 63. Nine OXHS genes are responsive to at least one of the abiotic stresses including drought, salt, cold, and abscisic acid treatment. Over-expression of one stress-responsive gene OXHS2 in rice resulted in reduced tolerance to salt and drought stresses. These results suggest that the OXHS family may be functionally diversified and some members of this family may play important roles in regulating stress tolerance in rice.
19702249	Well-defined polyaniline (PANI) nano-objects (e.g., spheres, peanuts, rice grains, corals, and fibers) were prepared by aniline dispersion polymerization in aqueous media in the presence of various reactive polymer stabilizers (i.e., poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO), poly(vinyl alcohol) (PVA), and poly[(N-vinyl pyrrolidone)-co-(vinyl alcohol)] (PNVP-co-PVA)). It was found that the shape, size, and conductivity of resulting PANI nanostructures depended on the acidic conditions along with the nature, molecular weight, and functionality of the reactive stabilizer. PANI samples were analyzed by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS), dynamic scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetric analysis (TGA), UV-visible and FTIR spectroscopy, transmission electron microscopy (TEM), atomic force microscopy (AFM), and conductivity measurements. PANI samples show conductivities between 5 x 10(-3) to 5 x 10(-1) S/cm depending upon the experimental conditions. The best conductivities were obtained when aniline was polymerized in a mixture of DMSO and water (2:3) in the presence of PEO- or PNVP-co-PVA-based reactive stabilizers.
19702268	Brown rice powder certified reference material, NMIJ CRM 7504-a, for the analysis of pesticide residues was developed by the National Metrology Institute of Japan, part of the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology. Brown rice sample was harvested to contain the pesticides such as etofenprox and fenitrothion, and that was collected from a field in Ibaraki Prefecture in Japan. The certification was carried out using multiple analytical methods such as pressurized liquid extraction, homogenization, and solid-liquid extraction (shaking); the values of target pesticides were obtained by isotope dilution mass spectrometry. Certified values were 0.19 +/- 0.05 mg/kg and 0.109 +/- 0.017 mg/kg for etofenprox and fenitrothion, respectively.
19702667	Most eukaryotic centromeres contain large quantities of repetitive DNA, such as satellite repeats and retrotransposons. Unlike most transposons in plant genomes, the centromeric retrotransposon (CR) family is conserved over long evolutionary periods among a majority of the grass species. CR elements are highly concentrated in centromeres, and are likely to play a role in centromere function. In order to study centromere evolution in the Oryza (rice) genus, we sequenced the orthologous region to centromere 8 of Oryza sativa from a related species, Oryza brachyantha. We found that O. brachyantha does not have the canonical CRR (CR of rice) found in the centromeres of all other Oryza species. Instead, a new Ty3-gypsy (Metaviridae) retroelement (FRetro3) was found to colonize the centromeres of this species. This retroelement is found in high copy numbers in the O. brachyantha genome, but not in other Oryza genomes, and based on the dating of long terminal repeats (LTRs) of FRetro3 it was amplified in the genome in the last few million years. Interestingly, there is a high level of removal of FRetro3 based on solo-LTRs to full-length elements, and this rapid turnover may have played a role in the replacement of the canonical CRR with the new element by active deletion. Comparison with previously described ChIP cloning data revealed that FRetro3 is found in CENH3-associated chromatin sequences. Thus, within a single lineage of the Oryza genus, the canonical component of grass centromeres has been replaced with a new retrotransposon that has all the hallmarks of a centromeric retroelement.
19702669	Centromeres are sites for assembly of the chromosomal structures that mediate faithful segregation at mitosis and meiosis. This function is conserved across species, but the DNA components that are involved in kinetochore formation differ greatly, even between closely related species. To shed light on the nature, evolutionary timing and evolutionary dynamics of rice centromeres, we decoded a 2.25-Mb DNA sequence covering the centromeric region of chromosome 8 of an indica rice variety, 'Kasalath' (Kas-Cen8). Analysis of repetitive sequences in Kas-Cen8 led to the identification of 222 long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposon elements and 584 CentO satellite monomers, which account for 59.2% of the region. A comparison of the Kas-Cen8 sequence with that of japonica rice 'Nipponbare' (Nip-Cen8) revealed that about 66.8% of the Kas-Cen8 sequence was collinear with that of Nip-Cen8. Although the 27 putative genes are conserved between the two subspecies, only 55.4% of the total LTR-retrotransposon elements in 'Kasalath' had orthologs in 'Nipponbare', thus reflecting recent proliferation of a considerable number of LTR-retrotransposons since the divergence of two rice subspecies of indica and japonica within Oryza sativa. Comparative analysis of the subfamilies, time of insertion, and organization patterns of inserted LTR-retrotransposons between the two Cen8 regions revealed variations between 'Kasalath' and 'Nipponbare' in the preferential accumulation of CRR elements, and the expansion of CentO satellite repeats within the core domain of Cen8. Together, the results provide insights into the recent proliferation of LTR-retrotransposons, and the rapid expansion of CentO satellite repeats, underlying the dynamic variation and plasticity of plant centromeres.
19702755	Nearly one-third of the world's population, mostly women and children, suffer from iron malnutrition and its consequences, such as anaemia or impaired mental development. Iron fortification of food is difficult because soluble iron is either unstable or unpalatable, and non-soluble iron is not bioavailable. Genetic engineering of crop plants to increase iron content has therefore emerged as an alternative for iron biofortification. To date, strategies to increase iron content have relied on single genes, with limited success. Our work focuses on rice as a model plant, because it feeds one-half of the world's population, including the majority of the iron-malnourished population. Using the targeted expression of two transgenes, nicotianamine synthase and ferritin, we increased the iron content of rice endosperm by more than six-fold. Analysis of transgenic rice lines confirmed that, in combination, they provide a synergistic effect on iron uptake and storage. Laser ablation-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry showed that the iron in the endosperm of the transgenic rice lines accumulated in spots, most probably as a consequence of spatially restricted ferritin accumulation. Agronomic evaluation of the high-iron rice lines did not reveal a yield penalty or significant changes in trait characters, except for a tendency to earlier flowering. Overall, we have demonstrated that rice can be engineered with a small number of genes to achieve iron biofortification at a dietary significant level.
19702902	The development of sensitive and specific serological assays for celiac disease has led to a revision of the prevalence of this disease in many countries. In the Asia-Pacific region, prevalence has been determined in only a minority of countries but those with prevalence rates of 1:50-1:500 adults include Australia, Iran, Israel, New Zealand, Syria and Turkey. In contrast, celiac disease appears to be extremely rare in Japan and may be rare in China. In India, prevalence rates are high in the northern states but much lower in the southern states. In individual countries, important determinants of prevalence include the per capita consumption of wheat and the frequency of a specific human leukocyte antigen (HLA) type genetically defined as HLA-DQB1*02 (*0201 or *0202) and serologically defined as HLA-DQ2. These determinants predict low prevalence rates for celiac disease in the Pacific Islands, South-East Asia and eastern China but higher rates in countries west of India and China. There is also the potential for a rising incidence of celiac disease if traditional rice-based diets are replaced by Western-style diets with a higher content of wheat products.
19703114	Here, we studied the functional role of a chloroplast alkaline alpha-galactosidase (OsAkalphaGal) in the breakdown of thylakoid membranes during rice (Oryza sativa) leaf senescence. We assayed the enzyme activity of recombinant OsAkalphaGal with different natural substrates and examined the effect of ectopic OsAkalphaGal expression in rice plants. Recombinant OsAkalphaGal showed at least a two-fold greater substrate-binding affinity and a 10-fold greater turnover rate to galactolipid digalactosyl diacylglycerol than the raffinose family of oligosaccharides (verbascose, stachyose, raffinose) and melibiose. The OsAkalphaGal null mutant (osakalphagal) displayed a delayed leaf senescence phenotype. OsAkalphaGal complementation in osakalphagal recovered OsAkalphaGal expression and showed a senescence phenotype similar to that of wild-type plants. Transgenic plants overexpressing OsAkalphaGal (UbiP-OsAkalphaGal) exhibited retarded plant growth and development, and showed a pale-green phenotype coupled with a reduced chlorophyll content to 42% in newly unfolded leaves. UbiP-OsAkalphaGal leaves also showed a 29-fold increase in alkaline alpha-galactosidase activity compared with wild-type leaves. An ultrastructural study of Ubi-OsAkalphaGal chloroplasts in newly unfolded leaves revealed abnormal grana organization. Our findings strongly suggest that OsAkalphaGal is a thylakoid membrane-degrading enzyme involved in the degradation of digalactosyl diacylglycerol during rice leaf senescence.
19703271	Heat shock proteins (Hsps) constitute an important component in the heat shock response of all living systems. Among the various plant Hsps (i.e. Hsp100, Hsp90, Hsp70 and Hsp20), Hsp20 or small Hsps (sHsps) are expressed in maximal amounts under high temperature stress. The characteristic feature of the sHsps is the presence of alpha-crystallin domain (ACD) at the C-terminus. sHsps cooperate with Hsp100/Hsp70 and co-chaperones in ATP-dependent manner in preventing aggregation of cellular proteins and in their subsequent refolding. Database search was performed to investigate the sHsp gene family across rice genome sequence followed by comprehensive expression analysis of these genes. We identified 40 alpha-crystallin domain containing genes in rice. Phylogenetic analysis showed that 23 out of these 40 genes constitute sHsps. The additional 17 genes containing ACD clustered with Acd proteins of Arabidopsis. Detailed scrutiny of 23 sHsp sequences enabled us to categorize these proteins in a revised scheme of classification constituting of 16 cytoplasmic/nuclear, 2 ER, 3 mitochondrial, 1 plastid and 1 peroxisomal genes. In the new classification proposed herein nucleo-cytoplasmic class of sHsps with 9 subfamilies is more complex in rice than in Arabidopsis. Strikingly, 17 of 23 rice sHsp genes were noted to be intronless. Expression analysis based on microarray and RT-PCR showed that 19 sHsp genes were upregulated by high temperature stress. Besides heat stress, expression of sHsp genes was up or downregulated by other abiotic and biotic stresses. In addition to stress regulation, various sHsp genes were differentially upregulated at different developmental stages of the rice plant. Majority of sHsp genes were expressed in seed. We identified twenty three sHsp genes and seventeen Acd genes in rice. Three nucleocytoplasmic sHsp genes were found only in monocots. Analysis of expression profiling of sHsp genes revealed that these genes are differentially expressed under stress and at different stages in the life cycle of rice plant.
19704155	3,4-Dimethylpyrazole phosphate (DMPP) was validated as an effective nitrification inhibitor to reduce nitrate leaching. Its effects on ammonia (NH(3)) volatilization were not clear, especially on farmland scale with crop rotations. In this study, on-farm experiments at the Jiaxing (JX) and Yuhang (YH) sites in Taihu Lake Basin, China were conducted to evaluate the effect of DMPP application on mineral nitrogen (N) (NH(4)-N and NO(3)-N) leaching and NH(3) volatilization losses in a rice-rapeseed cropping system. Treatments included urea alone (UA), urea + 1% DMPP (UD), and no fertilizer (CK). The results show that DMPP reduced NO(3)-N leaching fluxes by 44.9 to 59.9% and increased NH(4)-N leaching fluxes by 13.0 to 33.3% at two sites during rice and rape seasons compared with urea alone. Reductions in mineral-N leaching fluxes by DMPP in two seasons at the JX and YH sites were 9.5 and 14.3 kg N ha(-1), respectively, compared with UA treatment. The application of DMPP had no significant effects on NH(3) volatilization loss fluxes at either site. The rice and rapeseed yields were 5.3 to 7.4% higher in UD plots than in UA plots at two sites. These results that indicate DMPP could reduce leaching losses of mineral-N from crop fields and promote grain yields by conserving more applied N in soil in rice-rapeseed rotation systems.
19704157	Restoration of wetland hydrology can produce ecological benefits but may have unintended consequences. We examined effects of altered water level on release of dissolved reactive phosphorus (DRP) and greenhouse gases (GHG) in soil cores from a marsh being evaluated for restoration. We also measured field concentrations of DRP and other constituents in wetland porewater. Intact cores from a sampling location with higher Fe and lower calcium carbonate (CaCO(3)) contents released more DRP than another location, and displayed higher DRP under completely saturated compared to partly drained conditions. Porewater samples collected from the high-Fe location also contained higher DRP levels. Chemical data suggest that redox-driven reactions largely controlled DRP levels at the high-Fe site, while CaCO(3) adsorption was more important at the low-Fe site. Over the long term, water table elevation may attenuate P draining from the wetland due to decreased mineralization. However, such measures may increase P release in the short term. Raising the water level in soil cores resulted in decreased nitrous oxide (N(2)O) emissions, increased methane (CH(4)) emissions, and an overall increase in total global warming potential (GWP). The proportion of total GWP contributed by N(2)O decreased from 14% to < or = 1% as water level was raised, while the proportion contributed by CH(4) increased from 10 to 20% to 60 to 80%. Restoration of hydrology in the Rice Lake wetland has the potential to affect both local water quality and global air quality. These combined effects complicate the cost-to-benefit analysis of such wetland restoration efforts.
19704421	The light, oxygen or voltage (LOV) domain belongs to the Per-ARNT-Sim (PAS) superfamily of domains, and functions with the flavin chromophore as a module for sensing blue light in plants and fungi. The Arabidopsis thaliana PAS/LOV proteins (PLPs), of unknown function, possess an N-terminal PAS domain and a C-terminal LOV domain. Our recent analysis using yeast two-hybrid and Escherichia coli protein production systems reveals that the interactions of Arabidopsis PLPs with several proteins diminish under blue light illumination and that the PLP LOV domain may bind to a flavin chromophore. These results suggest that PLP functions as a blue light receptor. Homologs of PLP exist in rice, tomato and moss. The LOV domains of these PLP homologs form a distinct group in phylogenetic analysis. These facts suggest that PLP belongs to a new class of plant blue light receptor.
19704426	In Arabidopsis thaliana, a eudicot species, the transcription factor LFY is expressed throughout the floral meristem and promotes their formation. The expression pattern of the rice LFY homolog-RFL shows distinct differences from that of its Arabidopsis counterpart. In the March issue of PNAS (2008) we have shown the temporally-regulated high-level expression of RFL in the apical meristem is necessary for its transition to an inflorescence meristem and thus to initiate flowering. RFL controls the time taken for flowering, by activating integrators of flowering signals such as OsSOC1 and RFT1. Further, the dynamic pattern of RFL expression in the branching inflorescence meristem (panicle) and in vegetative axillary meristems (tiller buds) is required for panicle branching and tiller outgrowth. Thus RFL functions determine the architecture of the rice plant. Here we propose a plausible model for a regulatory feedback loop between RFL and OsSOC1/RFT1 in controlling the vegetative to flowering phase transition. We discuss the possibility that non-cell autonomous RFL functions may also regulate signaling the net outcome of which determines the rice plant body plan.
19704437	Recent large scale phosphoproteomics studies have helped identify many phosphorylation sites of both membrane and soluble proteins. In most cases the relevance of specific sites has yet to be established whereas in a small number of cases their potency in modulating protein activity is evident. With the increasing amount of data it is becoming clear that phosphosites are often conserved within protein families, pointing to generic regulatory mechanisms. In addition, such mechanisms may be conserved across species. In this addendum evidence is presented for these phenomena occurring in rice and Arabidopsis.
19704442	Recently, we reported the genome-wide identification of 107 homeobox genes in rice and classified them into ten distinct subfamilies based upon their domain composition and phylogenetic analysis. Microarray analysis revealed the tissue-specific and overlapping expression profiles of these genes during various stages of floral transition, panicle development and seed set. Several homeobox genes were also found to be differentially expressed under abiotic stress conditions. Based on massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) data analysis, we report here that a large number of small RNA signatures are associated with rice homeobox genes, which may be involved in their tissue-specific/developmental regulation and stress responses. The association of a very large number of small RNA signatures suggested an unusually high degree of regulation of homeobox genes by small RNAs during inflorescence development.
19704473	The ACh-mediated system consisting of acetylcholine (ACh), acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) is fundamental for nervous system function in animals and insects. Although plants lack a nervous system, both ACh and ACh-hydrolyzing activity have been widely recognized in the plant kingdom. The function of the plant ACh-mediated system is still unclear, despite more than 30 years of research. To understand ACh-mediated systems in plants, we previously purified maize AChE and cloned the corresponding gene from maize seedlings (Plant Physiology). In a recent paper in Planta, we also purified and cloned AChE from the legume plant siratro (Macroptilium atropurpureum). In comparison with electric eel AChE, both plant AChEs showed enzymatic properties of both animal AChE and animal butyrylcholinesterase. On the other hand, based on Pfam protein family analysis, both plant AChEs contain a consensus sequence of the lipase GDSL family, while the animal AChEs possess a distinct alpha/beta-hydrolase fold superfamily sequence, but no lipase GDSL sequence. Thus, neither plant AChE belongs to the well-known AChE family, which is distributed throughout the animal kingdom. To address the possible physiological roles of plant AChEs, we herein report our data from the immunological analysis of the overexpressed maize AChE gene in plants.
19704489	Most SVP-group MADS-box genes control meristem identity and flowering time. In rice, their roles in regulating the former are well-conserved; however, their involvement in determining the latter is not significant. Characteristically, rice SVP-group MADS-box proteins work as negative regulators in brassinosteroid (BR) responses. To elucidate the molecular mechanism, we studied the localization patterns for these proteins and found that, unexpectedly, they were not specific in the nucleus, whether expressed alone or simultaneously. Interestingly however, OsMADS22 and OsMADS47 were translocated into the nucleus along with OsMADS50 while OsMADS55 inhibited the nuclear localization of OsMADS50. An overlapping cis-element exists between the CArG motif and ARF binding site on the promoter region of OsBLE, which is upregulated by BR treatment and in SVP RNAi plants. These observations suggest that BR-mediated signals may induce target gene expression by removing the SVP-group MADS-box proteins that preoccupy the promoters of BR downstream genes.
19704569	Plants can be classified in two groups based on Iron (Fe) acquiring strategy. Graminaceous plants (Strategy II) acquire iron through mugineic acid family phytosiderophores (MAs). All MAs are synthesized from L-Met, sharing the same pathway from L-Met to 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA) and the subsequent steps may differ depending on plant specie and cultivar. DMA is synthesized through the reduction of a 3''-keto intermediate by deoxymugineic acid synthase (DMAS). Previously, all the genes involved in the synthesis of DMA have been cloned with the exception of DMAS. Recently we have reported the isolation of DMAS genes from rice, wheat, maize and barley. The DMAS belongs to aldo-keto reductase superfamily (AKR). The expression of each of the above DMAS genes is upregulated under Fe-deficient conditions in root tissue, and that of OsDMAS1 and TaDMAS1 are upregulated in shoot tissue. It seems that the expression of DMAS is not regulated at posttranscriptional level. Analysis of OsDMAS1 promoter-GUS transgenic rice suggested that DMA may have role in Fe homeostasis in rice. The cloning of DMAS genes is an important step to develop transgenic rice with increased biosynthesis and section of DMA and ultimately resistant to Fe-deficiency in calcareous soils.
19704613	Shoot development is regulated by specific gene expression programs depending on the interplay between transcription factors and growth hormones that function in specific domains of the meristem and lateral organs. Functional relationship between different regulators is not clearly established. In the May issue of Plant Physiology (2007) we have shown that Wuschel-like Homeobox3 and YABBY3 are coexpressed in the leaf primordia and young leaves, and that WOX3 functions as a transcriptional repressor of YAB3. Overexpression of WOX3 or downregulation of YAB3 induced ectopic expression of Knotted 1-like homeobox1 genes in leaves and consequently produced a phenotype similar to plants ectopically expressing KNOXI genes. In a parallel work published in the same issue, we have shown that another YABBY gene, YAB1, which is expressed in the same domains as YAB3 or WOX3, binds to the gibberellic acid responsive element and is involved in the feedback regulation of gibberellin biosynthesis. Our study demonstrates that rice YABBY genes are involved in two pathways to control cell division and differentiation during leaf formation and growth and establishes a rice shoot developmental regulatory hierarchy involving WOX3, YAB3, KNOX1 and gibberellin.
19704623	With a central role in respiration and ATP production, regulation of mitochondrial form and function is essential for cell and organism survival. Our understanding of the molecular mechanisms and signaling events underlying plant mitochondrial biogenesis is limited. In a recent paper published in the Journal of Biological Chemistry we have demonstrated aspects of mitochondrial biogenesis that are dependent on an oxygen signal in the monocot model, rice. Specifically, we identified (1) a set of genes encoding mitochondrial components that are responsive to oxygen levels and (2) that a lack of oxygen represses the normal increase in the mitochondrial protein import capacity during germination, and that these changes culminate in a modified mitochondrial proteome and altered respiratory activity. These findings can be combined with an earlier study, which gave insights into the characteristics of promitochondrial structures found in dry seeds and how they change during the germination process. Together they provide evidence for regulation of mitochondrial biogenesis by developmental and environmental cues and transcriptional and post-transcriptional events. This information can be used to build a model of plant mitochondrial biogenesis within the context of seed germination and oxygen availability.
19704626	The importance of cell separation in plant development cannot be overemphasized. The polygalacturonases (PGs) are the one of cell wall hydrolytic enzyme families that has been associated with various cell separation processes in plant development including seed germination, dehiscence, organ abscission, and fruit ripening. Both Arabidopsis and rice PG gene family have expanded in a lineage-specific fashion after the split more than 150 million years ago. Tandem duplications and large-scale duplications are the major contributors to the current PG family size in Arabidopsis. The spatial expression analysis of the 66 Arabidopsis PG family members have led us to conclude that different duplication mechanisms affect the expression divergence differently. This becomes more apparent when temporal examination of expression is conducted in five developmental stages of floral organ abscission in Arabidopsis. Nine distinct patterns of PGs are identified during floral organ abscission in Arabidopsis. Four PGs are specifically upregulated during abscission associated with cell separation process. Careful understanding of relationships among Arabidopsis PGs in a context of evolution together with expression analysis of these PGs will facilitate the functional study of PGs specifically in floral organ abscission in Arabidopsis.
19704641	The influence of anoxia and hypoxia on dynamic of intracellurar pH and ATP content in rice and wheat root tips was investigated with (31)P-NMR spectroscopy. Both cereals responded to hypoxia similarly, by rapid cytoplasmic acidification (from pH 7.6-7.7 to 7.1), which was followed by slow partial recovery (0.3 units). Anoxia led to a dramatic pH(cyt) drop in tissues of both species (from pH 7.6-7.7 to less than 7.0) and partial recovery took place in rice only. In wheat, the acidification continued to pH 6.8 after 6 h of exposure. Anoxic wheat root tips were deficient in ADH induction, whereas increased activity of alcoholic fermentation enzymes took place in anoxic rice root tips, as well as in both species after hypoxic treatment. In both plants, NTP content followed the dynamics of pH(cyt). There was a strong correlation between NTP content and cytoplasmic H(+) activity ([H(+)](cyt) = 10(-pHcyt)) for both hypoxic and anoxic conditions. In this addendum we want to focus the reader's attention on the importance of adequate experimental design when hypoxia is under investigation and on some further perspectives of intracellular pH regulation in plants under anaerobic conditions.
19704644	Surface-penetrating phytopathogenic fungi frequently form appressoria. These are specialised infection structures pivotal to fungal ingress into the host. Recently, we demonstrated that one member of a family of cutinases in Magnaporthe grisea is involved in surface sensing, mediating appressorium differentiation and penetration peg formation and hence facilitates host penetration. Cutinase2 serves as an upstream activator of cAMP/PKA and DAG/PKC signalling cascades and is essential for full virulence. Here, we speculate on the role of rice blast hydrophobins as surface interactors facilitating fungal cutinase activity.
19704658	Ascorbate peroxidase (APx; EC 1.11.1.11) plays an important role in scavenging the toxic effects of H(2)O(2) in higher plants. Eight types of APx have been described for Oryza sativa: two cytosolic (OsAPx1 and OsAPx2), two putative peroxisomal (OsAPx3 and OsAPx4), and four chloroplastic isoforms (OsAPx5, OsAPx6, OsAPx7 and OsAPx8). We have recently demonstrated that Na(+) but not Cl(-) is required for the NaCl-induced expression of OsAPx8 in rice roots. Evidence is also provided to show that Na(+)-induced expression of OsAPx8 is mediated through an accumulation of ABA. In addition to its known component of ion toxicity, there is an osmotic effect resulting from salt concentration in the soil. Here we show that ABA level but not OsAPx8 expression was enhanced at a concentration of mannitol iso-osmotic with 150 mM NaCl suggests that NaCl-enhanced OsAPx8 expression is not associated with osmotic component.
19704659	Rice seedlings (Oryza sativa L.) were subjected to low temperature pretreatment (LT-PT; 10 degrees C) for various length of time followed by a 48-h chilling temperature stress (2 degrees C). Chilling tolerance of rice roots was improved with increasing duration of LT-PT, but HT-PT longer than 12 h gave no additional improvement. LT-PT did not change in fatty acid composition in rice roots under the present experimental condition. Alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) activity and ethanol concentration in the roots were increased with increasing duration of LT-PT up to 12 h, which indicates that LT-PT increased ethanol fermentation in the roots. 4-Methylpyrazole, a potent inhibitor of ADH, reduced the ethanol concentration and the chilling tolerance in the roots. This reduction of the chilling tolerance recovered with exogenously applied ethanol. Ethanol also induced 21- and 33-kD protein synthesis in the roots and these proteins may contribute the improvement of the tolerance. The present research suggests that LT-PT may increase chilling tolerance in rice roots owing to ethanol production, and ethanol may trigger a signal transduction cascade, which might lead to a decrease in membrane damage and injury.
19704680	Barley plants can be colonized by the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, a pathogen initially known from rice plant cultivation. A mutational screen was performed in the barley mlo-genetic background which is, in comparison to wild-type MLO-genotypes, hypersusceptible against this fungus. This led to the identification of a mutant, referred to as emr1 (enhanced Magnaporthe resistance), that showed partially restored resistance. Disease symptoms on leaves of emr1 were significantly less severe than on mlo5-genotypes but still more than on wt MLO-barley plants.Segregation analysis showed that emr1 was inherited as a single recessive trait. Insight into the mode of action of emr1-dependent resistance against M. oryzae was gained by microscopic analysis. The results of these experiments revealed that mutant emr1 blocked penetration by M. oryzae by the formation of effective papillae in approximately half of all incidences. At about 30% of the interaction sites fungal growth was arrested effectively by an HR in the epidermal cell. Only a low frequency of fungal infection sites proceed into the mesophyll where fungal invasion resulted in the onset of a hypersensitive response (HR)-like cell death. Here, we report further evidence that barley shows a mesophyll HR in response to colonisation by M. oryzae. The possibility that the fungus turns this ostensible defence reaction to its own advantage and profits from the dead host tissue by switching to a necrotrophic lifestyle is discussed.
19704731	Under acid soil condition, rhizotoxic ions such as aluminum and protons cause severe yield loss in food and biomass production via inhibition of root growth and/or enhancement of sensitivity to drought stress. Therefore, improvement of crop tolerance to rhizotoxic ions would be an important target for crop breeding, and identification of key genes that regulate tolerance to both aluminum and proton ions should provide a solution to this limitation. We recently isolated a mutant that shows hyper-sensitivity to protons in root growth, namely stop1 (sensitive to proton rhizotoxicity). The stop1 mutant was isolated from an ethyl methanesulfonate mutagenized population by measuring root growth under low pH (pH 4.3). Interestingly, stop1 also shows hypersensitivity to aluminum ion, but not to other rhizotoxic ions. Cloning of the STOP1 gene revealed that it encodes a Cys2/His2 zinc-finger type transcription factor, and a conserved His residue was replaced with Tyr in the predicted amino acid sequence for the mutant gene. This indicates that STOP1 is involved in the signal transduction pathway of proton and aluminum tolerance. Indeed, under acidic condition, stop1 failed to induce the AtALMT1 gene, which encodes one of the major factors for aluminum tolerance. By searching a public database, we have identified genes homologous to STOP1 in rice, maize and some other plants. Thus, the STOP1 family genes may act as a key factor for acid tolerance in a wide variety of plants.
19704739	Ubiquitin ligase (E3) plays a central role in substrate recognition during ubiquitination, a post-translational modification of proteins. Rice EL5 is an E3 with a RING-H2 finger domain (RFD) and its transcript is upregulated by a chitin elicitor. The EL5-RFD has been intensively studied and demonstrated to exhibit E3 activity. Its three-dimensional structure was determined for the first time in plant E3, and the amino acid residues required for the interaction with the ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme (E2) were identified. Recent analyses revealed that EL5 plays a crucial role as an E3 in the maintenance of cell viability during root development in rice. In this addendum, we report that the EL5-RFD catalyzes polyubiquitination via the Lys48 residue of ubiquitin. We also discuss the possible role of EL5 as an anti-cell death enzyme. We hypothesize that EL5 might be responsible for mediating the degradation of cytotoxic proteins produced in root cells after the actions of phytohormones.
19704753	CLAVATA pathway is one of best-characterized signaling pathway involves in the regulation of meristem development in Arabidopsis. Increasing evidence indicated that this pathway also exist in the monocots as well as in the dicots. We have recently identified FON4 in rice as an ortholog of CLV3 in Arabidopsis. FON4 is putative ligand of FON1, which play a role in restricting the meristem size in rice. FON4 and CLV3 are the members of CLE gene family, which encode small functional secreted peptide with a conserved 14-amino acid motif (CLE motif) near or at the C termini.
19704822	AtPHR1 plays a central role in Pi-starvation signaling in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Two PHR genes were isolated from rice and designated as OsPHR1 and OsPHR2 based on amino acid sequence homology to AtPHR1. Transgenic plants with overexpression and repression of OsPHR1 and OsPHR2, respectively, were used for investigation of roles of the genes in Pi-signaling pathway and Pi homeostasis under Pi-sufficient and deficient conditions. The results showed that both of the genes are involved in the Pi-signaling pathway, while overexpression of OsPHR2 mimics Pi-starvation stress with enhanced root elongation and proliferated root hairs, and results in the excessive accumulation of Pi in shoots under Pi-sufficient conditions. OsPHR2 regulated proliferation of root hair growth and root elongation suggests that OsPHR2 is involved in both systematic and local Pi-signaling pathways.
19704837	Tryptophan (Trp)-related secondary metabolism has been implicated in the defense against pathogen infection and insect feeding in various gramineous species. Recently, we also reported that rice plant accumulated serotonin and tryptamine as well as their amide compounds coupled with phenolic acids in response to the infection by fungal pathogen. These compounds were likely to play an important role in the formation of physical barrier to the invading pathogens. To extend our study to elucidate the defensive role of Trp-derived secondary metabolism in gramineous plants, we examined in this study whether it is activated in response to herbivore attack as well. Third leaves of rice plant were fed on by third instar larvae of rice striped stem borer for 24 h or 48 h. The analysis of four Trp-derived metabolites including tryptamine, serotonin feruloyltryptamine (FerTry) and p-coumaroylserotonin (CouSer) by liquid chromatography coupled with tandem mass spectrometry revealed that their contents clearly increased in response to the larvae feeding. The respective amounts of tryptamine, serotonin, FerTry and CouSer in the larvae-fed leaves were 12-, 3.5-, 33- and 140-fold larger than those in control leaves 48 h after the start of feeding.
19704839	Using airborne signals to attract herbivore predators and parasitoids is an important strategy that plants use in defense against herbivorous insects. The volatiles involved in this indirect plant defense are often chemically complex and variable across species. We recently established rice as a model for studying the molecular and genomic basis of volatile-mediated indirect plant defense. Rice plants when damaged by fall armyworm larvae become highly attractive to parasitic wasps. The volatiles potentially responsible for parasitoid attraction were determined to be a blend of compounds predominated by terpenoids, of which S-linalool is the most abundant. Racemic linalool alone was shown to be effective in attracting parasitic wasps. By combining volatile profiling and microarray analysis, a catalog of candidate genes for volatile biosynthesis was identified. Three genes encoding terpene synthases were biochemically characterized. They are responsible for the production of the majority of volatile terpenes released from insect-damaged rice plants. Additional candidate genes are being currently characterized for their role in production of other insect-induced volatiles from rice plants. Identification of a complete set of key genes for synthesizing herbivory-induced volatiles in rice will provide an important reference for comparative studies of this important defense trait across a variety of plant species.
19704912	The growth and development of rice (Oryzae sativa) seedlings was shown to be regulated epigenetically by a fungal endophyte. In contrast to un-inoculated (nonsymbiotic) plants, endophyte colonized (symbiotic) plants preferentially allocated resources into root growth until root hairs were well established. During that time symbiotic roots expanded at five times the rate observed in nonsymbiotic plants. Endophytes also influenced sexual reproduction of mature big sagebrush (Artemisia tridentata) plants. Two spatially distinct big sagebrush subspecies and their hybrids were symbiotic with unique fungal endophytes, despite being separated by only 380 m distance and 60 m elevation. A double reciprocal transplant experiment of parental and hybrid plants, and soils across the hybrid zone showed that fungal endophytes interact with the soils and different plant genotypes to confer enhanced plant reproduction in soil native to the endophyte and reduced reproduction in soil alien to the endophyte. Moreover, the most prevalent endophyte of the hybrid zone reduced the fitness of both parental subspecies. Because these endophytes are passed to the next generation of plants on seed coats, this interaction provides a selective advantage, habitat specificity, and the means of restricting gene flow, thereby making the hybrid zone stable, narrow and potentially leading to speciation.
19704969	The nutrient medium on the basis of enzymatic hydrolysate of rice flour was used for culturing of MDCK and Vero(B) cells. Culturing of the vaccine line Vero(B) in this medium was not accompanied by changes in proliferative activity and sensitivity to influenza viruses A(H1N1) and A(H3N2).
19704970	Morphological and proliferative characteristics of cultured Vero and MDCK cells were compared after growth in nutrient media of the basis of enzymatic hydrolysates of rice flour proteins and soybean flour proteins or control media (DMEM and Axcevir-MDCK). These media had a strong stimulatory effect on the growth of cultured Vero cells (addition of 3% fetal bovine serum, Gibco), but did not modulate the morphology of this culture. Culturing of MDCK cells in nutrient media on the basis of enzymatic hydrolysates of rice and soybean flour proteins with low content of fetal bovine serum (2%, Gibco) was accompanied by insignificant changes in the index of proliferation and morphological characteristics of cultured cells.
19705249	We report herein two cases of carcinoma of the cervical esophagus adjacent to the larynx in which surgery achieved good results. Surgery for case 1, a 64-year-old woman, comprised resection of a carcinoma of the cervical esophagus at stage 0-IIa T1aN0M0, bilateral neck and paratracheal dissections (D1 and D2 dissection), reconstruction using the free jejunal segment, and tracheostomy. At 30 days postoperatively, she was able to eat normal food. For case 2, a 58-year-old man, the same operative procedures were conducted for stage 0-IIc T1bN0M0 carcinoma. At 33 days postoperatively, the patient was able to eat rice porridge (5 parts water, 1 part rice). We therefore consider that for carcinomas in the vicinity of the pharyngoesophageal segment, surgery can achieve both radical cure and preservation of function in some cases.
19705603	This work describes the preparation and characterization of biogenic modified silica from rice hull ash and its use as a sorbent of cadmium ions. Thus, an agro-industrial residue has been used to produce a new adsorbent product which is able to remove toxic elements. Mesoporous biogenic silica was obtained by alkaline extraction of sodium silicate by hydrolysis with the sol-gel process, and it was modified with salen using 1,2-dichloroethane as a spacer. The surface area of the silica was measured by nitrogen adsorption/desorption analysis. Surface modification was measured by Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy. The degree of functionalization was obtained by elemental analysis. This work showed that biogenic modified silica can be produced in aqueous media from rice hull ash using a simple method, providing an alternative method for adsorbent preparation. Thermogravimetric analysis showed that the salen-modified silica is stable up to 209 degrees C. The modified silica displays appropriate structural characteristics for an adsorbent. The cylindrical pores, open at both ends, allow free diffusion of cadmium ions to the adsorption sites on the silica surface. The surface modification increases cadmium adsorption on the silica surface 100-fold. The salen-modified silica showed specific adsorption for Cd(2+) of 44.52 mg/g SiO2 at cadmium concentration of 100 mg/l.
19706179	Rice and barley are both members of Poaceae (grass family) but have a marked difference in salt tolerance. The molecular mechanism underlying this difference was previously unexplored. This study employs a comparative genomics approach to identify analogous and contrasting gene expression patterns between rice and barley. A hierarchical clustering approach identified several interesting expression trajectories among rice and barley genotypes. There were no major conserved expression patterns between the two species in response to salt stress. A wheat salt-stress dataset was queried for comparison with rice and barley. Roughly one-third of the salt-stress responses of barley were conserved with wheat while overlap between wheat and rice was minimal. These results demonstrate that, at transcriptome level, rice is strikingly different compared to the more closely related barley and wheat. This apparent lack of analogous transcriptional programs in response to salt stress is further highlighted through close examination of genes associated with root growth and development. The analysis provides support for the hypothesis that conservation of transcriptional signatures in response to environmental cues depends on the genetic similarity among the genotypes within a species, and on the phylogenetic distance between the species.
19706486	Paleogenomics seeks to reconstruct ancestral genomes from the genes of today's species. The characterization of paleo-duplications represented by 11,737 orthologs and 4,382 paralogs identified in five species belonging to three of the agronomically most important subfamilies of grasses, that is, Ehrhartoideae (rice) Panicoideae (sorghum, maize), and Pooideae (wheat, barley), permitted us to propose a model for an ancestral genome with a minimal size of 33.6 Mb structured in five proto-chromosomes containing at least 9,138 predicted proto-genes. It appears that only four major evolutionary shuffling events (alpha, beta, gamma, and delta) explain the divergence of these five cereal genomes during their evolution from a common paleo-ancestor. Comparative analysis of ancestral gene function with rice as a reference indicated that five categories of genes were preferentially modified during evolution. Furthermore, alignments between the five grass proto-chromosomes and the recently identified seven eudicot proto-chromosomes indicated that additional very active episodes of genome rearrangements and gene mobility occurred during angiosperm evolution. If one compares the pace of primate evolution of 90 million years (233 species) to 60 million years of the Poaceae (10,000 species), change in chromosome structure through speciation has accelerated significantly in plants.
19706531	Fragrance in the grain is one of the most highly valued grain quality traits in rice, yet the origin and evolution of the betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase gene (BADH2) underlying this trait remains unclear. In this study, we identify eight putatively nonfunctional alleles of the BADH2 gene and show that these alleles have distinct geographic and genetic origins. Despite multiple origins of the fragrance trait, a single allele, badh2.1, is the predominant allele in virtually all fragrant rice varieties today, including the widely recognized Basmati and Jasmine types. Haplotype analysis allowed us to establish a single origin of the badh2.1 allele within the Japonica varietal group and demonstrate the introgression of this allele from Japonica to Indica. Basmati-like accessions were nearly identical to the ancestral Japonica haplotype across a 5.3-Mb region flanking BADH2 regardless of their fragrance phenotype, demonstrating a close evolutionary relationship between Basmati varieties and the Japonica gene pool. These results clarify the relationships among fragrant rice varieties and challenge the traditional assumption that the fragrance trait arose in the Indica varietal group.
19706555	Phytochromes are believed to be solely responsible for red and far-red light perception, but this has never been definitively tested. To directly address this hypothesis, a phytochrome triple mutant (phyAphyBphyC) was generated in rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Nipponbare) and its responses to red and far-red light were monitored. Since rice only has three phytochrome genes (PHYA, PHYB and PHYC), this mutant is completely lacking any phytochrome. Rice seedlings grown in the dark develop long coleoptiles while undergoing regular circumnutation. The phytochrome triple mutants also show this characteristic skotomorphogenesis, even under continuous red or far-red light. The morphology of the triple mutant seedlings grown under red or far-red light appears completely the same as etiolated seedlings, and they show no expression of the light-induced genes. This is direct evidence demonstrating that phytochromes are the sole photoreceptors for perceiving red and far-red light, at least during rice seedling establishment. Furthermore, the shape of the triple mutant plants was dramatically altered. Most remarkably, triple mutants extend their internodes even during the vegetative growth stage, which is a time during which wild-type rice plants never elongate their internodes. The triple mutants also flowered very early under long day conditions and set very few seeds due to incomplete male sterility. These data indicate that phytochromes play an important role in maximizing photosynthetic abilities during the vegetative growth stage in rice.
19707297	The AllergenPro database has developed a web-based system that will provide information about allergen in microbes, animals and plants. The database has three major parts and functions:(i) database list; (ii) allergen search; and (iii) allergenicity prediction. The database contains 2,434 allergens related information readily available in the database such as on allergens in rice microbes (712 records), animals (617 records) and plants (1,105 records). Furthermore, this database provides bioinformatics tools for allergenicity prediction. Users can search for specific allergens by various methods and can run tools for allergenicity prediction using three different methods. The database is available for free at http://www.niab.go.kr/nabic/
19707805	The wheat high molecular weight (HMW) glutenins are important seed storage proteins that determine bread-making quality in hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum). In this study, detailed comparative sequence analyses of large orthologous HMW glutenin genomic regions from eight grass species, representing a wide evolutionary history of grass genomes, reveal a number of lineage-specific sequence changes. These lineage-specific changes, which resulted in duplications, insertions, and deletions of genes, are the major forces disrupting gene colinearity among grass genomes. Our results indicate that the presence of the HMW glutenin gene in Triticeae genomes was caused by lineage-specific duplication of a globulin gene. This tandem duplication event is shared by Brachypodium and Triticeae genomes, but is absent in rice, maize, and sorghum, suggesting the duplication occurred after Brachypodium and Triticeae genomes diverged from the other grasses ~35 Ma ago. Aside from their physical location in tandem, the sequence similarity, expression pattern, and conserved cis-acting elements responsible for endosperm-specific expression further support the paralogous relationship between the HMW glutenin and globulin genes. While the duplicated copy in Brachypodium has apparently become nonfunctional, the duplicated copy in wheat has evolved to become the HMW glutenin gene by gaining a central prolamin repetitive domain.
19708343	Environmental pollutants are suspected to be a cause of global declines in amphibian populations, but few data are available on the bioaccumulation of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in amphibians. To examine the tissue distribution, biomagnification potential, and maternal transfer of PBDEs in frogs, eighteen PBDE congeners were measured in the muscle, liver, and egg tissues of rice frogs (Rana limnocharis) and insects collected from an electronic waste (e-waste) recycling site in South China. PBDE levels in the frogs ranged from 0.63 to 11.6, 4.57 to 56.2, and 10.7 to 125 ng/g wet wt in the muscles, livers, and eggs, respectively. The frogs exhibited a unique congener profile, compared to those in aquatic and terrestrial species, with BDEs 99, 153, 183, 209, and 47 as the dominant congeners, intermediating between aquatic and terrestrial species. Most of the PBDE congeners in general showed higher affinity to liver than to muscle tissue. Except for BDEs 28, 47, 66, 138, and 206, the average biomagnification factors (BMFs) for all PBDE congeners were greater than 1.0, providing clear evidence of their biomagnification from insects to frogs. A parabolic relationship between log BMFs and bromine atom numbers or log Kow of PBDEs was observed, with the maximum BMF values for PBDEs with 6 bromine atoms (or at a log K(ow) of approximately 8.0). Relatively higher levels of 3-MeO-BDE 47 were found in male frogs, suggesting that male frogs in the present study might have higher metabolic capacity for PBDEs compared to female frogs. The ratio of levels in egg/female liver, indicating mother-to-egg transfer capacity, increased with increasing bromine atom numbers up to 7 and then declined as the bromine atom numbers rose. This indicated that the physicochemical properties of the congeners (e.g., K(ow), molecular sizes, and structures), resulting in different affinities to transport proteins, might impact their maternal transfer in frogs.
19708360	Multivariate curve resolution alternating least squares is shown to be a powerful chemometric tool for investigation of main surface water contamination patterns affecting a particular geographical area over a period of time. When environmental monitoring data tables are analyzed using this method, the identification of the main contamination patterns, and the description of their geographical and temporal distribution profiles, can be obtained. To show the potential of the proposed method, the investigation of the pesticide contamination affecting the Ebro River delta (Catalonia, NE Spain) during the rice-growing season in 2005, is selected as a case study in this work. Three different contamination patterns of pesticides with different spatial end temporal behaviors were identified. A method validation using simulated data is then proposed to evaluate the suitability of the proposed multivariate curve resolution method for the analysis of the different possible date structures currently occurring in environmental monitoring studies. In particular, different data structures previously encountered in the experimental study of the Ebro River have been investigated in detail. The importance of using either raw or scaled data is contrasted using the simulated data sets. Possible propagation of noise on resolved profiles is also investigated to establish the difference between its effects and the possible ambiguities inherent to multivariate curve resolution methods.
19709200	The effect of a brief (24 h) temperature shift to 4 degrees C (low-temperature stress) or 50 degrees C (high-temperature stress) was studied in methanogenic slurries of Italian rice field soil incubated at either constant 30 degrees C or 15 degrees C. Low-temperature (low-T) stress showed no effect in either the 30 degrees C or the 15 degrees C incubations. High-temperature (high-T) stress, on the other hand, generally resulted in an increase in the partial pressure of H(2), and the concentrations of acetate and propionate, which accumulated to about 100-200 Pa, 4-6 mM and 0.7-0.9 mM, respectively. The increase in H(2) was transient for 8-15 days. The increases in acetate and propionate were transient for about 20 days only in the 30 degrees C incubations, but persisted in the 15 degrees C incubations until the end of the experiment. The high-T stress did not result in inhibition of CH(4) production in the 30 degrees C incubations, but transiently inhibited the 15 degrees C incubations for about 25-30 days. The archaeal community in the soils was analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism of the gene of the SSU rRNA. In the 15 degrees C incubations, the relative gene frequency of members of the Methanosarcinaceae decreased over an incubation period of 54 days, while those of Methanosaetaceae and of methanogenic rice cluster I increased. Temperature stress, high-T stress in particular, tended to reverse this trend. In the 30 degrees C incubations, on the other hand, the relative gene frequency of archaeal members showed the opposite temporal trend or remained constant unlike the 15 degrees C incubations. Again, high-T stress tended to reverse these trends, but the observed effects were much smaller in the 30 degrees C incubations than in the 15 degrees C incubations. In conclusion, a brief high-T stress affected structure and function of the methanogenic archaeal community of rice field soil.
19709303	The annual rate of CH4 release and potential CH4 production has recently been studied in the Salmisuo fen in eastern Finland but the microbiota responsible for the CH4 production has not been examined. The diversity of the methane producing Archaea was analysed, at different depths, in the most representative microsite (Eriophorum lawn) of the fen. Methanogen populations were studied using primers amplifying a region of the methyl-coenzyme M reductase gene. PCR products were analysed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis of clone libraries. A representative of each RFLP group was sequenced. The study revealed a change of the methanogen populations with depth. Sequences from the upper layers of the fen grouped in a novel 'Fen cluster' and were related to Methanomicrobiales. Sequences retrieved from the deeper layers of the fen were related to Methanosarcinales via the Rice Cluster-I.
19709333	To assess the dynamics of plasmid transfer between Bacillus thuringiensis and B. cereus in various food microcosms using the B. thuringiensis pAW63 and Staphylococcus aureus pUB110 plasmids as models. The conjugative behaviour of pAW63, which resembles the B. anthracis virulence plasmid pXO2, and the mobilization of pUB110 were investigated using kinetics studies performed in reference LB (lysogeny broth) medium, full-cream and skimmed milks, soya milk and rice milk. Transfers of pAW63 and pUB110 were found to occur in the five tested media, with higher frequencies observed in food matrices, most notably in full-cream milk, skimmed milk and soya milk, where the mean transfer frequencies reached 10(-3) transconjugants per recipient cell. The most notable observations were that the higher transfer frequencies obtained in foodstuffs compared to those observed in LB were because of an earlier onset of conjugation in combination with a higher transfer rate and/or a longer mating period. These results indicate that not only the potential for plasmid transfer but also the overall timing of conjugation is affected by each of these food matrices. This new approach to study plasmid transfer provides insights for a better understanding of conjugation in food microcosms from both animal and vegetable origins among members of the B. cereus group.
19709387	Root architecture plays important roles in plant water and nutrient acquisition. However, accurate modeling of the root system that provides a realistic representation of roots in the soil is limited by a lack of appropriate tools for the non-destructive and precise measurement of the root system architecture in situ. Here we describe a root growth system in which the roots grow in a solid gel matrix that was used to reconstruct 3D root architecture in situ and dynamically simulate its changes under various nutrient conditions with a high degree of precision. A 3D laser scanner combined with a transparent gel-based growth system was used to capture 3D images of roots. The root system skeleton was extracted using a skeleton extraction method based on the Hough transformation, and mesh modeling using Ball-B spline was employed. We successfully used this system to reconstruct rice and soybean root architectures and determine their changes under various phosphorus (P) supply conditions. Our results showed that the 3D root architecture parameters that were dynamically calculated based on the skeletonization and simulation of root systems were significantly correlated with the biomass and P content of rice and soybean based on both the simulation system and previous reports. Therefore, this approach provides a novel technique for the study of crop root growth and its adaptive changes to various environmental conditions.
19709808	Recently because of increasing of the environmental awareness and demands, several attempts were carried out for the conversion of by-products of natural materials, especially agricultural wastes, to highly sorption capacity materials. In recent years, attention has been focused on the utilization of unmodified or modified agro-residues as sorbents for removal of pollutants. Various modifications have been reported to enhance sorption capacities for heavy metals. The present study deals with the adsorption equilibrium of iron, manganese, lead and arsenic ions from aqueous solutions on copolymer of Al(+3), Si(+4) and Fe(+3) using batch techniques. The influence of various parameters, such as agitation time, sorbent mass and pH of sorbate solution were investigated. Under this study the maximum adsorption capacity of iron and aluminum copolymer impregnated with silica (PAlFeClSi) for lead, iron, manganese and arsenic are found to be 416, 222, 158, 146 mg/g, respectively.
19710161	Principal component analysis (PCA) is a popular method of dietary patterns analysis, but our understanding of its use to describe changes in dietary patterns over time is limited. Using a FFQ, we assessed the diets of 12,572 nonpregnant women aged 20-34 y from Southampton, UK, of whom 2270 and 2649 became pregnant and provided complete dietary data in early and late pregnancy, respectively. Intakes of white bread, breakfast cereals, cakes and biscuits, processed meat, crisps, fruit and fruit juices, sweet spreads, confectionery, hot chocolate drinks, puddings, cream, milk, cheese, full-fat spread, cooking fats and salad oils, red meat, and soft drinks increased in pregnancy. Intakes of rice and pasta, liver and kidney, vegetables, nuts, diet cola, tea and coffee, boiled potatoes, and crackers decreased in pregnancy. PCA at each time point produced 2 consistent dietary patterns, labeled prudent and high-energy. At each time point in pregnancy, and for both the prudent and high-energy patterns, we derived 2 dietary pattern scores for each woman: a natural score, based on the pattern defined at that time point, and an applied score, based on the pattern defined before pregnancy. Applied scores are preferred to natural scores to characterize changes in dietary patterns over time because the scale of measurement remains constant. Using applied scores, there was a very small mean decrease in prudent diet score in pregnancy and a very small mean increase in high-energy diet score in late pregnancy, indicating little overall change in dietary patterns in pregnancy.
19710163	The prevalence of metabolic syndrome has reached epidemic levels in the Samoan Islands. In this cross-sectional study conducted in 2002-2003, dietary patterns were described among American Samoan (n = 723) and Samoan (n = 785) adults (> or =18 y) to identify neo-traditional and modern eating patterns and to relate these patterns to the presence of metabolic syndrome using Adult Treatment Panel III criteria. The neo-traditional dietary pattern, similar across both polities, was characterized by high intake of local foods, including crab/lobster, coconut products, and taro, and low intake of processed foods, including potato chips and soda. The modern pattern, also similar across both polities, was characterized by high intake of processed foods such as rice, potato chips, cake, and pancakes and low intake of local foods. The neo-traditional dietary pattern was associated with significantly higher serum HDL-cholesterol in American Samoa (P-trend = 0.05) and a decrease in abdominal circumference in American Samoa and Samoa (P-trend = 0.004 and 0.01, respectively). An inverse association was found with metabolic syndrome, although it did not reach significance (P = 0.23 in American Samoa; P = 0.13 in Samoa). The modern pattern was significantly positively associated with metabolic syndrome in Samoa (prevalence ratio = 1.21 for the fifth compared with first quintile; 95% CI: 0.93.1.57; P-trend = 0.05) and with increased serum triglyceride levels in both polities (P < 0.05). Reduced intake of processed foods high in refined grains and adherence to a neo-traditional eating pattern characterized by plant-based fiber, seafood, and coconut products may help to prevent growth in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in the Samoan islands.
19710994	Pesticide contamination of soil and ground water at or near the agricultural fields is a major problem world wide. The ability of several amendments like rice straw, manure, saw dust and charcoal were used to stimulate the degradation of atrazine in soil. Field soil fortified with pesticide at two concentration levels were amended separately with rice straw, farm yard manure, saw dust and charcoal at rates of 2.5% (w/w) and maintained at field capacity moisture regime and kept at ambient temperature 25 +/- 5 degrees C. The results indicate 89.5% degradation of atrazine in farm yard manure during 60-day period followed by rice straw, saw dust charcoal and recording 87.2% and 83.8%, 67.7%, respectively, as compared to unamended treatment where 63.3% degradation was observed. The FYM was found to be most effective in soil and enhances the degradation as compared to the other amendments. Although addition of organic manures has been an integral part of sustainable agriculture practices; the present findings give a new dimension of it's utilization for removal of persistent pesticides.
19711051	We have reported previously that the most active miniature inverted terminal repeat transposable element (MITE) of rice, mPing, was transpositionally mobilized in several rice recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from an introgressive hybridization between rice and wild rice (Zizania latifolia Griseb.). To further study the phenomenon of hybridization-induced mPing activity, we undertook the present study to investigate the element's behavior in a highly asymmetric somatic nuclear hybrid (SH6) of rice and Z. latifolia, which is similar in genomic composition to that of the RILs, though probably contains more introgressed alien chromatins from the donor species than the RILs. We found that mPing, together with its transposase-donor, Pong, underwent rampant transpositional activation in the somatic hybrid (SH6). Because possible effects of protoplast isolation and cell culture can be ruled out, we attribute the transpositional activation of mPing and Pong in SH6 to the process of asymmetric somatic hybridization, namely, one-step introgression of multiple chromatin segments of the donor species Z. latifolia into the recipient rice genome. A salient feature of mPing transposition in the somatic hybrid is that the element's activation was accompanied by massive loss of its original copies, i.e., abortive transpositions, which was not observed in previously reported cases of mPing activity. These data not only corroborated our earlier finding that wide hybridization and introgression may trigger transpositional activation of otherwise quiescent transposable elements, but also suggest that transpositional mobilization of a MITE like mPing can be accompanied by dramatic reduction of its original copy numbers under certain conditions, thus provide novel insights into the dynamics of MITEs in the course of genome evolution.
19711151	An extract of Lentinula edodes mycelia (L.E.M.) was obtained with hot water after culturing in medium comprising bagasse and rice bran. It has been reported that L.E.M. exhibits physiological effects such as anticancer activity and immunoregulatory activity, and that such effects involve macrophage activation. We examined the active components in L.E.M. by fractionation using an anion exchange carrier and gel chromatography, and determined whether they stimulate production of the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in RAW264.7 cells. We obtained 2 polysaccharide fractions, IA-a and IA-b, which potently stimulated cytokine production. We also confirmed that IA-a and IA-b significantly stimulate phagocytosis in RAW264.7 cells. To determine the structures of these fractions, we performed sugar component analysis, methylation analysis, FT-IR, (13)C-NMR analysis, and molecular weight analysis. The results showed that the major component of IA-a is a 1,4-alpha-glucan exhibiting 1,6-branching and having a molecular weight of approximately 250,000. This branching structure suggests that IA-a has a glycogen-like structure. In addition, the major component of IA-b appears to be an arabinoxylan-like polysaccharide, mainly consisting of arabinose and xylose, with a molecular weight of approximately 8,500.
19712067	Receptor-like protein kinases (RLKs) containing an extracellular leucine-rich repeat (eLRR) domain, a transmembrane domain and a cytoplasmic kinase domain play important roles in plant disease resistance. Simple eLRR domain proteins structurally resembling the extracellular portion of the RLKs may also participate in signalling transduction and plant defence response. Yet the molecular mechanisms and subcellular localization in regulating plant disease resistance of these simple eLRR domain proteins are still largely unclear. We provided the first experimental evidence to demonstrate the subcellular localization and trafficking of a novel simple eLRR domain protein (OsLRR1) in the endosomal pathway, using both confocal and electron microscopy. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down assays show that OsLRR1 interacts with the rice hypersensitive-induced response protein 1 (OsHIR1) which is localized on plasma membrane. The interaction between LRR1 and HIR1 homologs was shown to be highly conserved among different plant species, suggesting a close functional relationship between the two proteins. The function of OsLRR1 in plant defence response was examined by gain-of-function tests using transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana. The protective effects of OsLRR1 against bacterial pathogen infection were shown by the alleviating of disease symptoms, lowering of pathogen titres and higher expression of defence marker genes.
19712286	Nitrogen is the single most limiting factor for rice production. Detailed knowledge on nitrogen dynamics in rice fields is therefore of major importance for developing sustainable rice production. A combination of state-of-the-art microsensor, stable isotope tracer, and molecular techniques was used to evaluate coupled nitrification-denitrification potentials and community structure of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in a high yield irrigated rice cropping system in the Philippines, without the use of microcosm incubations. The multiple approaches showed a high degree of concordance among methods and thereby clarified the investigated processes. Numbers and potential activity of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in the system reflected the availability of substrate in three defined soil factions with a ranking of: surface soil > rhizosphere > bulk soil. No nitrification activity was measured between spit applications of N fertilizer. However, nitrification was induced upon nitrogen amendment in intact soil cores. Despite induction by nitrogen amendment, the loss of nitrogen through coupled nitrification-denitrification was less than 10% of the plant nitrogen uptake. Denaturant gradient gel electrophoresis of amoA fragments revealed no differences in diversity profiles between the soil fractions, and phylogenetic analysis, based on amoA genes retrieved from the rice paddy soil, identified a set of mutually very similar sequences related to Nitrosomonas nitrosa.
19712315	The oxidation of methane by methane-oxidising microorganisms is an important link in the global methane budget. Oxic soils are a net sink while wetland soils are a net source of atmospheric methane. It has generally been accepted that the consumption of methane in upland as well as lowland systems is inhibited by nitrogenous fertiliser additions. Hence, mineral nitrogen (i.e. ammonium/nitrate) has conceptually been treated as a component with the potential to enhance emission of methane from soils and sediments to the atmosphere, and results from numerous studies have been interpreted as such. Recently, ammonium-based fertilisation was demonstrated to stimulate methane consumption in rice paddies. Growth and activity of methane-consuming bacteria in microcosms as well as in natural rice paddies was N limited. Analysing the available literature revealed that indications for N limitation of methane consumption have been reported in a variety of lowland soils, upland soils, and sediments. Obviously, depriving methane-oxidising bacteria of a suitable source of N hampers their growth and activity. However, an almost instantaneous link between the presence of mineral nitrogen (i.e. ammonium, nitrate) and methane-oxidising activity, as found in rice soils and culture experiments, requires an alternative explanation. We propose that switching from mineral N assimilation to the fixation of molecular nitrogen may explain this phenomenon. However, there is as yet no experimental evidence for any mechanism of instantaneous stimulation, since most studies have assumed that nitrogenous fertiliser is inhibitory of methane oxidation in soils and have focused only on this aspect. Nitrogen as essential factor on the sink side of the global methane budget has been neglected, leading to erroneous interpretation of methane emission dynamics, especially from wetland environments. The purpose of this minireview is to summarise and balance the data on the regulatory role of nitrogen in the consumption of methane by soils and sediments, and thereby stimulate the scientific community to embark on experiments to close the existing gap in knowledge.
19712348	The presence and phylogeny of methylotrophs, including methanotrophs, in a deep-sea sediment of a tropical west Pacific Warm Pool site WP was investigated by molecular marker-based analysis of mxaF, pmoA and archaeal 16S rRNA genes. MxaF amino acid sequence analysis revealed that microbes belonging to the alpha-Proteobacteria and most related to Hyphomicrobium and Methylobacterium were the dominant aerobic methylotrophs in this deep-sea sediment; also, a small percentage of type II methanotrophs, closely related to Methylocystis and Methylosinus, were detected in this environment. On the other hand, the use of a pmoA gene marker could not demonstrate the presence of any methanotrophs in this environment, suggesting that the mxaF gene probe is a more suitable marker in this deep-sea sediment for the detection of methylotrophs (including methanotrophs). mxaF quantitative polymerase chain reaction results showed that the west Pacific WP sediment contained approximately 3x10(4-5) methylotrophs per gram sediment, 10-100 times more than the samples collected from several other deep-sea Pacific sediments, but, on the other hand, about 10 times less than the amounts present in samples collected from rice and flower garden soil. Archaeal diversity as analyzed by 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that a non-thermophilic marine group I crenarchaeote was the major archaeal group present in the west Pacific WP.
19712368	Leakage of O(2) from roots of aquatic plants supports the oxidation of ammonia to nitrate and of sulfide to sulfate in the rhizosphere, so that these electron acceptors may become available to the root microbial communities and affect their activity. We studied the composition of the bacterial community active in anoxically incubated rice roots by analysis of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) and by cloning and sequencing targeting bacterial 16S rRNA. The bacterial ribosomal abundance in unamended rice roots, which were naturally encrusted with ferric iron, were initially dominated (about 65% of total 16S rRNA) by Clostridium, Bacillus and Geobacter/Pelobacter, but after 5 d clostridia decreased and members of the Cytophaga-Flavobacterium-Bacteroides (CFB) phylum increased (up to 30% of total 16S rRNA). Addition of nitrate or sulfate to the root incubations resulted in bacterial growth detected by fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH). It also affected the steady state concentrations of H(2), acetate, propionate and butyrate that were measured in the root incubations. Nitrate reducers were apparently involved in consumption of all of these compounds. Sulfate reducers, on the other hand, showed net production of acetate during utilization of propionate. Nitrate stimulated populations of Bacillus and Dechloromonas to become active, the latter temporarily increasing to 25% of total 16S rRNA, but suppressed the increase of CFB bacteria. Sulfate, on the other hand, stimulated Desulfosporosinus and Geobacter/Pelobacter, increasing to about 15% of total 16S rRNA, and suppressed CFB bacteria to become active. In conclusion, our study showed the potential effect of exogenous electron acceptors on the composition and activity of the bacterial community in rice root incubations, and identified the phylogenetic groups of the root microbial communities that respond to an increased availability of nitrate or sulfate.
19712401	Photosynthesis by terrestrial vegetation is the driving force of carbon cycling between soil and the atmosphere. The soil microbiota, the decomposers of organic matter, is the second player carrying out carbon cycling. Numerous efforts have been made to quantify rhizodeposition and soil respiration to understand and predict the carbon cycling between the soil and atmosphere. However, there have been few attempts to link directly the soil microbial community to plant photosynthesis. We carried out a pulse-chase labeling experiment in a wetland rice system in which rice plants of various ages were labeled with (13)CO(2) for 6 h and the distribution of the assimilated (13)C to soil microorganisms was estimated by analyzing the (13)C profile of microbial phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs). The results showed that total PLFA increased with plant growth, indicating an increase of microbial biomass. But the mono-unsaturated PLFAs increased faster than the branched chain fatty acids. The (13)C was incorporated into PLFAs immediately after the plant (13)CO(2) assimilation, proving the tight coupling of microbial activity to plant photosynthesis. In line with the finding of seasonal change in total PLFAs, more of (13)C was distributed to the straight chain fatty acids (16:0, 16:1omega7, 18:1omega7 and 18:1omega9) than to the branched chain fatty acids. The total plant carbon incorporation estimated from (13)C labeling roughly corresponded to the increase in total PLFAs over the growing season of plants. Our study suggests that microbial populations in rice soil differ greatly in their responses to plant photosynthate input.
19712584	OsDREB1D, a special DREB (dehydration responsive element binding protein) homologous gene, whose transcripts cannot be detected in rice (Oryza sativa L), either with or without stress treatments, was amplified from the rice genome DNA. The yeast one-hybrid assay revealed that OsDREB1D was able to form a complex with the dehydration responsive element/C-repeat motif. It can also bind with a sequence of LTRE (low temperature responsive element). To analyze the function of OsDREB1D, the gene was transformed and over-expressed in Arabidopsis thaliana cv. Columbia. Results indicated that the over-expression of OsDREB1D conferred cold and high-salt tolerance in transgenic plants, and that transgenic plants were also insensitive to ABA (abscisic acid). From these data, we deduced that this OsDREB1D gene functions similarly as other DREB transcription factors. The expression of OsDREB1D in rice may be controlled by a special mechanism for the redundancy of function.
19713044	The efficacy of M. anisopliae strain E9 as a biological insecticide for the adult and larval stages of H. irritans was assessed under field conditions. To assess larvicidal activity, nine heifers were randomly divided into three groups, which were maintained separated from each other. The first group ingested fungal spores encapsulated in alginate pellets. The second group ingested in natura spores that were grown on sterilized rice. In both groups, each animal received three meals a day, with each meal containing 2 x 10(10)conidia. The third group received no treatment and was used as a control. Fecal samples from manure and whole dung pats were collected from each of the three separate pastures on the day that the animals were allocated and on days 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 afterwards. The fecal samples were tested for the presence of fungal colony forming units (CFU), and the emergence of horn flies was observed in the dung pats. Significantly less (P<0.01) adult horn flies were found in dung pats of the group treated with encapsulated fungi (11.7) than in those from the heifers treated with conidia in natura (27.9) or from the control group (29.5). The fecal samples of the treated animals presented significantly higher numbers of M. anisopliae CFUs then those from the untreated controls. We found that on day 9 fecal samples from animals given microencapsulated conidia had significantly higher CFUs than those from animals treated with conidia in natura. To assess adulticide activity, four heifers were sprayed with a suspension of 3 x 10(10)conidial(-1) of M. anisopliae, and four control animals were sprayed with the same solution without conidial content. Four sprayings were done at five-day intervals, and all animals were photographed daily to observe the quantity of flies present. After the second spraying, we observed an average of 22.9 flies per animal; untreated heifers had an average of 43 flies per animal; thus, the treatment significantly (P<0.05) decreases fly infestation. The results obtained from both tests show that M. anisopliae strain E9 has a pathogenic effect on H. irritans larvae in bovine manure when administered orally and on adult fly infestations when applied as a spray on the hosts.
19713235	To determine the effectiveness of increasing the dietary content of soluble fibre (psyllium) or insoluble fibre (bran) in patients with irritable bowel syndrome. Randomised controlled trial. General practice. 275 patients aged 18-65 years with irritable bowel syndrome. 12 weeks of treatment with 10 g psyllium (n=85), 10 g bran (n=97), or 10 g placebo (rice flour) (n=93). The primary end point was adequate symptom relief during at least two weeks in the previous month, analysed after one, two, and three months of treatment to assess both short term and sustained effectiveness. Secondary end points included irritable bowel syndrome symptom severity score, severity of abdominal pain, and irritable bowel syndrome quality of life scale. The proportion of responders was significantly greater in the psyllium group than in the placebo group during the first month (57% v 35%; relative risk 1.60, 95% confidence interval 1.13 to 2.26) and the second month of treatment (59% v 41%; 1.44, 1.02 to 2.06). Bran was more effective than placebo during the third month of treatment only (57% v 32%; 1.70, 1.12 to 2.57), but this was not statistically significant in the worst case analysis (1.45, 0.97 to 2.16). After three months of treatment, symptom severity in the psyllium group was reduced by 90 points, compared with 49 points in the placebo group (P=0.03) and 58 points in the bran group (P=0.61 versus placebo). No differences were found with respect to quality of life. Fifty four (64%) of the patients allocated to psyllium, 54 (56%) in the bran group, and 56 (60%) in the placebo group completed the three month treatment period. Early dropout was most common in the bran group; the main reason was that the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome worsened. Psyllium offers benefits in patients with irritable bowel syndrome in primary care. Clinical trials NCT00189033.
19714315	Plant defensins are small (5-10 kDa) basic peptides thought to be an important component of the defense pathway against fungal and/or bacterial pathogens. To understand the role of plant defensins in protecting plants against the brown planthopper, a type of insect herbivore, we isolated the Brassica rapa Defensin 1 (BrD1) gene and introduced it into rice (Oryza sativa L.) to produce stable transgenic plants. The BrD1 protein is homologous to other plant defensins and contains both an N-terminal endoplasmic reticulum signal sequence and a defensin domain, which are highly conserved in all plant defensins. Based on a phylogenetic analysis of the defensin domain of various plant defensins, we established that BrD1 belongs to a distinct subgroup of plant defensins. Relative to the wild type, transgenic rices expressing BrD1 exhibit strong resistance to brown planthopper nymphs and female adults. These results suggest that BrD1 exhibits insecticidal activity, and might be useful for developing cereal crop plants resistant to sap-sucking insects, such as the brown planthopper.
19714476	The objective of the present study was to develop and evaluate a local vaccine (strain TPV-1) against Fowl pox (FP) in chickens. Two separate groups of chickens were vaccinated with FP vaccine through oral (coated on oiled rice) and wing web stab routes, respectively. The results showed that the haemagglutination-inhibition (HI) antibody titres in both vaccinated groups were comparable and significantly higher (P < 0.05) than the control chickens. It was further revealed that 14 days after vaccination HI GMT of > or =2 log(2) was recorded in chickens vaccinated by oral and wing web stab routes whereas 35 days after vaccination the HI antibody titres reached 5.6 log(2) and 6.3 log(2), respectively. Moreover, in both groups the birds showed 100% protection against challenge virus at 35 days after vaccination. The findings from the present study have shown that oral route is equally effective as wing web stab route for vaccination of chickens against FP. However, the oral route can be used in mass vaccination of birds thus avoid catching individual birds for vaccination. It was noteworthy that strain TPV-1 virus could be propagated by a simple allantoic cavity inoculation and harvesting of allantoic fluid where it survived exposure at 57 degrees C for 2 hours. If the oral vaccination technique is optimized it may be used in controlling FP in scavenging and feral chickens. In conclusion, the present study has shown that FP vaccine (strain TPV-1) was safe, thermostable, immunogenic and efficacious in vaccinated chickens.
19714920	The plant cell apoplast, which consists of all the compartments beyond the plasma membrane, is implicated in a variety of functions during plant growth and development as well as in plant defence responses to stress conditions. To evaluate the role of apoplastic proteins in initial phase of salt stress, a 2-DE based differential proteomics approach has been used to identify apoplastic salt response proteins. Six salt response proteins have been identified, among them, an apoplastic protein OsRMC, which belongs to cysteine-rich repeat receptor like protein kinase subfamily but without the kinase domain, has shown drastically increased abundance in response to salt stress during the initial phase. Our results show, OsRMC negative regulates the salt tolerance of rice plants. These results indicated that plant apoplastic proteins may have important role in plant salt stress response signal pathway.
19714989	A sensitive, rapid, and simple multiresidue method for the simultaneous determination of six postemergence herbicides currently used in rice cultivation--metsulfuron methyl, bensulfuron methyl, pyrazosulfuron ethyl, bentazone, bispyribac sodium, and cyhalofop butyl--in drinking and paddy-field water is presented. Water samples were extracted with solid-phase extraction cartridges. Final determination was made by LC with diode-array detection. The extraction efficiencies of C18 and HLB cartridges were compared. The average recovery obtained for these compounds for the lowest spiked level (0.1 microg/L) varied from 70 to 122% for C18 and 75-119% for HLB, with RSDs of 11 and 8.3%, respectively. The method had good linearity, and the lower detection limit for the pesticides studied varied from 0.03 to 0.04 microg/L. The proposed method was also tested in paddy-field water, with recovery studies giving good results with low RSDs at 1.0 microg/L.
1971615	Attempts were made to produce Lagenidium in culture media containing corn starch, barley flour, wheat flour, jaggery, rice bran, rice flour or tapioca starch as the major carbon source and groundnut cake as nitrogen source in comparison with peptone-yeast extract-glucose-sunflower oil (PYGSF) agar medium. The number of zoospores produced by the mycelia grown in PYGSF agar medium was 20 x 10(4)/10 cm2 while that grown in the other media was 20-25 x 10(4)/10 cm2. With respect to the larvicidal activity, the mycelia grown for 7 days in the medium containing jaggery, tapioca starch, rice flour or rice bran caused 88-96 per cent mortality while that from other media, including PYGSF agar medium, caused 70-75 per cent mortality. Twelve batches of the fungus were produced using rice-groundnut cake-sunflower oil (RGNCSF) agar medium with consistent zoospore yield and larvicidal activity.
19716176	The main focus of this study was to evaluate long term effects of cadmium on forearm bone mineral density after stopping ingestion of cadmium-polluted rice for 10 years in a Chinese population. A total of 532 persons (338 women and 194 men), living in control, moderately and heavily polluted areas, were included in this study. The residents living in the polluted area ceased ingesting cadmium-polluted rice in 1996. All participants were require to answer a questionnaire and the bone mineral density (BMD) was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) at the proximal radius and ulna. Samples of urine and blood were collected for determination of cadmium in urine (UCd) and blood (BCd).The BMD of subjects living in the heavily polluted area was significantly lower than that of those living in control area in both men and women (p<0.01). For the people living in the moderately polluted area, only the women's BMD was greatly lower compared to that in the control area (p<0.05). The BMD declined with the increasing BCd and UCd in both sexes, especially in the highest level (BCd >5 microg/L, UCd >10 microg/g crea) groups (p<0.01). It was found that there were significant differences in the prevalence of osteoporosis among the different areas (chi(2)=13.046, p=0.0003) and different UCd groups (chi(2)=4.511, p=0.0337) in women, but not in men (chi(2)=0.962, p=0.3268; chi(2)=1.906, p=0.1675). But a significant difference exists in the prevalence of osteoporosis among different BCd groups in both genders (chi(2)=9.304, p=0.00229, in women; chi(2)=4603, p=0.0319, in men). This study suggested that cadmium could play a long-term role on bone and more attention should be paid to cadmium effects on bone metabolism after reduction of exposure.
19717446	Single-nucleotide polymorphism was used in the construction of an expressed sequence tag map of Aegilops tauschii, the diploid source of the wheat D genome. Comparisons of the map with the rice and sorghum genome sequences revealed 50 inversions and translocations; 2, 8, and 40 were assigned respectively to the rice, sorghum, and Ae. tauschii lineages, showing greatly accelerated genome evolution in the large Triticeae genomes. The reduction of the basic chromosome number from 12 to 7 in the Triticeae has taken place by a process during which an entire chromosome is inserted by its telomeres into a break in the centromeric region of another chromosome. The original centromere-telomere polarity of the chromosome arms is maintained in the new chromosome. An intrachromosomal telomere-telomere fusion resulting in a pericentric translocation of a chromosome segment or an entire arm accompanied or preceded the chromosome insertion in some instances. Insertional dysploidy has been recorded in three grass subfamilies and appears to be the dominant mechanism of basic chromosome number reduction in grasses. A total of 64% and 66% of Ae. tauschii genes were syntenic with sorghum and rice genes, respectively. Synteny was reduced in the vicinity of the termini of modern Ae. tauschii chromosomes but not in the vicinity of the ancient termini embedded in the Ae. tauschii chromosomes, suggesting that the dependence of synteny erosion on gene location along the centromere-telomere axis either evolved recently in the Triticeae phylogenetic lineage or its evolution was recently accelerated.
19717456	To cause rice blast disease, the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae elaborates specialized infection structures called appressoria, which use enormous turgor to rupture the tough outer cuticle of a rice leaf. Here, we report the generation of a set of 22 isogenic M. oryzae mutants each differing by a single component of the predicted autophagic machinery of the fungus. Analysis of this set of targeted deletion mutants demonstrated that loss of any of the 16 genes necessary for nonselective macroautophagy renders the fungus unable to cause rice blast disease, due to impairment of both conidial programmed cell death and appressorium maturation. In contrast, genes necessary only for selective forms of autophagy, such as pexophagy and mitophagy, are dispensable for appressorium-mediated plant infection. A genome-wide analysis therefore demonstrates the importance of infection-associated, nonselective autophagy for the establishment of rice blast disease.
19717618	The phytohormone gibberellic acid (GA) regulates diverse aspects of plant growth and development. GA responses are triggered by the degradation of DELLA proteins, which function as repressors in GA signaling pathways. Recent studies in Arabidopsis thaliana and rice (Oryza sativa) have implied that the degradation of DELLA proteins occurred via the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Here, we developed an Arabidopsis cell-free system to recapitulate DELLA protein degradation in vitro. Using this cell-free system, we documented that Lys-29 of ubiquitin is the major site for ubiquitin chain formation to mediate DELLA protein degradation. We also confirmed the specific roles of GA receptors and multisubunit E3 ligase components in regulating DELLA protein degradation. In addition, blocking DELLA degradation with a PP1/PP2A phosphatase inhibitor in our cell-free assay suggested that degradation of DELLA proteins required protein Ser/Thr dephosphorylation activity. Furthermore, our data revealed that the LZ domain of Arabidopsis DELLA proteins is essential for both their stability and activity. Thus, our in vitro degradation system provides biochemical insights into the regulation of DELLA protein degradation. This in vitro assay system could be widely adapted for dissecting cellular signaling pathways in which regulated proteolysis is a key recurrent theme.
19719018	Rice bran is a byproduct resulted from the rice milling process. It corresponds to 8% of the total rice grain. It is an abundant and low-cost product which has high concentration of insoluble fiber, vitamins and minerals, and it is mainly applied for animal feeding and soil fertilizing. The aim of this work was to evaluate the color, the proximate composition and acceptability of the cookies formulated with extruded rice bran (ERB). Completely randomized design was applied using one control and four treatments (12.5%, 25%, 37.5% and 50% of EBR in place of wheat flour and cassava starch). All analyses were performed according to standard methods. The gradual addition of EBR to biscuits influenced its darkening and yellow/red color tendency. Cookies with 50% of ERB had higher contents of protein (7.56 g 100 g(-1)), dietary fiber (5.17 g 100 g(-1)) and ash (3.31 g 100 g(-1)) and lower proportion of carbohydrate (60.78 g 100 g(-1)) than the control. Forty grams of that formulation supplies more than 10% of daily recommended intakes of magnesium, phosphorus and copper. The cookies were well accepted and did not show significant difference (P = 0,05) regarding the appearance, texture and flavor when compared to control. Cookies formulated with 50% of ERB present better nutritional quality than those elaborated without rice bran and have good sensory acceptance.
19719483	Roles of H(2)O(2) in the infection process of Magnaporthe oryzae on rice were investigated. In a leaf sheath assay for up to 48 h post-inoculation, the absence or presence of catalase in the conidia suspension was correlated with the level of accumulated H(2)O(2) in infected leaf cells, as observed by staining with 3',3-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride. In the incompatible interaction, the appearance of autofluorescence or frequency of cell death characterized by granulation (symptoms characteristic of hypersensitive responses) was not significantly affected by the presence of catalase in the conidia suspension. In the leaf blade assay, inoculation of compatible conidia in the presence of catalase produced more severe symptoms than that of conidia in the absence of catalase at 6 days post-inoculation. These results suggest that, in this host-parasite interaction, the primary role of host-produced H(2)O(2) is in limiting hyphal growth after penetration through toxic action. Furthermore, in incompatible interactions, H(2)O(2) is implied not to be a major mediator of hypersensitive cell death.
19719599	Two dense and highly enriched (up to 10(9) cells ml(-1), <10% of bacterial satellites) acido-tolerant (pH 4.0-6.5) methanogenic consortia, '26' and 'K', were isolated from the peat beneath a Sphagnum-Eriophorum-Carex community in West Siberia. Both consortia produced methane from CO2:H2 on chemically defined, diluted N-free media containing Ti(III)citrate as reducing agent. The phylogenetic analysis of 16S ribosomal DNA revealed three archaeal and nine bacterial sequence types. Consortium '26' contained single archaea Methanobacterium sp., represented by rods of 1.5-10x0.5-1.0 microm. In consortium 'K', there were two archaeal phylotypes, the respective methanogens were further differentiated morphologically with the fluorescence in situ hybridization technique: one less abundant (<2%) population of the long-curved rods (50-100x0.3-0.4 microm) fell into the order of Methanomicrobiales, while the dominant organism (approximately 98%), represented by straight rods with abrupt rectangular ends (3-9x0.5 microm), was affiliated with earlier uncultured 'Rice cluster I'. The main bacterial satellite used citrate as a single carbon and energy source; it was similar in both consortia, and after isolation in pure culture, it was identified as a new member of the alpha-subclass of Proteobacteria. The other bacterial satellites were distributed among four taxonomic groups: the delta-subclass of Proteobacteria, the Flavobacterium-Bacteroides-Cytophaga line of descent, the Acidobacterium-Fibrobacter line of descent and the Green non-sulfur bacteria line of descent. At least 11 out of 12 components of acido-tolerant consortia are new to science at the species, genus and order levels; their existence until now was evident only from environmental gene retrievals. The Sphagnum wetlands, attracting attention only recently because of their global environmental role, are shown to be an especially valuable source of novel prokaryotic organisms.
19719605	Abstract The interactions between maize, sorghum, wheat and rice plants and Herbaspirillum seropedicae were examined microscopically following inoculation with the H. seropedicae LR15 strain, a Nif(+) (Pnif::gusA) mutant obtained by the insertion of a gusA-kanamycin cassette into the nifH gene of the H. seropedicae wild-type strain. The expression of the Pnif::gusA fusion was followed during the association of the diazotroph with the gramineous species. Histochemical analysis of seedlings of maize, sorghum, wheat and rice grown in vermiculite showed that strain LR15 colonized root surfaces and inner tissues. In early steps of the endophytic association, H. seropedicae colonized root exudation sites, such as axils of secondary roots and intercellular spaces of the root cortex; it then occupied the vascular tissue and there expressed nif genes. The expression of nif genes occurred in roots, stems and leaves as detected by the GUS reporter system. The expression of nif genes was also observed in bacterial colonies located in the external mucilaginous root material, 8 days after inoculation. Moreover, the colonization of plant tissue by H. seropedicae did not depend on the nitrogen-fixing ability, since similar numbers of cells were isolated from roots or shoots of the plants inoculated with Nif(+) or Nif(-) strains.
19719643	Dissimilatory iron reduction is of quantitative importance during anaerobic degradation of organic matter in flooded rice field soils. To isolate dissimilatory Fe(III)-reducing microorganisms from rice soil, enrichments were carried out with acetate and ferrihydrite. One of these resulted in the isolation of strain FAc12. This organism grew anaerobically in defined mineral medium with acetate as electron donor and with ferric citrate, ferrihydrite, or nitrate as electron acceptor. Strain FAc12 also grew well aerobically in defined mineral medium with acetate, citrate, glucose, or with complex medium. Comparative sequence analysis of its 16S rRNA gene revealed that strain FAc12 is most closely related to the very recently described Anaeromyxobacter dehalogenans within the order Myxococcales. The overall similarity value between the 16S rRNA gene sequences of strain FAc12 and the type strain of A. dehalogenans (2CP-1) is 99.5%. A. dehalogenans has been reported to be the first facultative anaerobic myxobacterium, while all other members of the Myxococcales were known to be strict aerobes. A. dehalogenans is able to grow by chlororespiration and to utilize nitrate as terminal electron acceptor for growth. Cultivation-independent retrieval of 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that rice roots are also colonized by various members of this novel subgroup. This information and the metabolic capacity of strain FAc12 allows the assumption that these organisms are physiologically adapted to environments characterized by spatial and temporal fluctuations between oxic and anoxic conditions, as is typically the case for flooded rice soil.
19719662	Abstract Potential interactions between methanogenic archaea and nitrate- and sulfate-reducing bacteria were studied in anoxic incubations of excised rice roots as a model system, by following changes in the concentrations of electron donors and acceptors and in the methanogenic community structure. The relative abundances of methanogenic groups were determined by analyses of terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism targeting archaeal SSU rRNA. Nitrate and sulfate amendment both resulted in suppression of CH(4) production. Suppression by nitrate was initially due to substrate competition for H(2) but eventually also resulted in the suppression of rRNA synthesis of methanogens, in particular of Methanosarcina spp., which was most probably caused by toxic N-compounds (e.g. nitrite). Sulfate-reducing bacteria also successfully competed with methanogens for H(2) and retarded the growth (and/or rRNA synthesis) of the methanogenic populations belonging to the hydrogenotrophic Rice cluster I/Methanomicrobiaceae-group. Our results thus show the potential effect of competition and substrate toxicity on growth and/or synthesis of ribosomes in the two major functional groups of methanogens in a natural habitat.
19719675	Culturable anaerobic bacterial populations on rice plant residue (straw and stubble with roots) in paddy field soil were found on the order of 10(9) CFU (colony-forming units) (g dry weight of plant residue)(-1), and the percentages of spores were usually less than 1% of the total anaerobes. Anaerobic bacteria were isolated from each sample by picking up colonies on the roll tube agar used for the enumeration. The phylogenetic analysis of 47 isolates based on 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the composition of dominant culturable anaerobic bacteria on rice plant residue was rather simple. The most dominant group was closely related to the Cellulomonas species in the Actinobacteria phylum and accounted for more than 60% of the isolates for most of the samples. The second major group was also affiliated with the Actinobacteria phylum and tentatively named the 'propionate-producing Actinobacteria group' because the strains in the group commonly produced propionate. Strains in the third group, the 'Prevotella-like group', were Gram-negative, strictly anaerobic rods and placed in the Bacteroides phylum with 16S rRNA gene similarities of 86-92% to the closest relatives. Some other strains belonging to Betaproteobacteria and the clostridial group were also isolated. Most of the strains affiliated to the clostridial group were isolated from the heat-treated samples. Some phenotypic characteristics of representative strains of each group are also described.
19720169	In this work, the microsampling nature of tungsten coil electrothermal vaporization Ar/H(2) flame atomic fluorescence spectrometry (W-coil ETV-AFS) as well as tungsten coil electrothermal atomic absorption spectrometry (W-coil ET-AAS) was used with cloud point extraction (CPE) for the ultrasensitive determination of cadmium in rice and water samples. When the temperature of the extraction system is higher than the cloud point temperature of the selected surfactant Triton X-114, the complex of cadmium with dithizone can be quantitatively extracted into the surfactant-rich phase and subsequently separated from the bulk aqueous phase by centrifugation. The main factors affecting the CPE, such as concentration of Triton X-114 and dithizone, pH, equilibration temperature and incubation time, were optimized for the best extract efficiency. Under the optimal conditions, the limits of detection for cadmium by W-coil ETV-AFS and W-coil ET-AAS were 0.01 and 0.03 microg L(-1), with sensitivity enhancement factors of 152 and 93, respectively. The proposed methods were applied to the determination of cadmium in certified reference rice and water samples with analytical results in good agreement with certified values.
19720627	Four out of five members of the RBCS multigene family (OsRBCS2-OsRBCS5) were highly expressed in leaf blades of rice (Oryza sativa L.) irrespective of plant growth stage, whereas accumulation of all RBCS mRNAs in leaf sheaths, roots and developing spikelets was quite low. A highly positive correlation was observed between total RBCS and RBCL mRNA levels and Rubisco content at their maxima, irrespective of tissue and growth stage. The results indicate that the total RBCS mRNA level may be a primary determinant for maximal Rubisco protein content and that Rubisco gene expression is well coordinated through the whole life of rice.
19720678	In the past decade, a number of bioinformatics tools have been developed to perform comparative genomics studies in plants and animals. However, most of the publicly available and user friendly tools lack common standards for the identification of robust orthologous relationships between genomes leading non-specialists to often over interpret the results of large scale comparative sequence analyses. Recently, we have established a number of improved parameters and tools to define significant relationships between genomes as a basis to develop paleogenomics studies in grasses. Here, we describe our approaches and propose the development of community-based standards that can be used in comparative genomic studies to (i) identify robust sets of orthologous gene pairs, (ii) derive complete sets of chromosome to chromosome relationships within and between genomes and (iii) model common paleo-ancestor genome structures. The rice and sorghum genome sequences are used to exemplify step-by-step a methodology that should allow users to perform accurate comparative genome analyses in their favourite species. Finally, we describe two applications for accurate gene annotation and synteny-based cloning of agronomically important traits.
19723230	The optimum formulation for mayonnaise-type spreads containing rice bran oil (RBO) and soy protein concentrate (SPC) was determined based on sensory acceptability. RBO and SPC were used due to their health benefit claims such as lowering risk of heart disease. The effects of the proportions of high-impact ingredients (RBO, SPC, and water) on sensory acceptability of the spreads were determined. The 10 spread formulations, prepared following a 3-component constrained simplex lattice mixture design, were subjected to a consumer acceptance test to identify sensory attributes driving consumer acceptance and purchase intent. Predictive regression models were used to plot mixture response surfaces of the critical sensory attributes (taste, mouthfeel, and overall liking) that influenced purchase intent. Areas within the contour plots of these critical sensory attributes, having acceptability scores > or = 68 ("moderately like" on the 100-mm bidirectional labeled affective magnitude scale) were chosen and superimposed to obtain a predicted optimum formulation range (37% to 43% RBO, 4% to 7% SPC, and 52% to 57% water). The formulation containing 37% RBO, 6% SPC, and 57% water, which was located within the optimum region, was selected as a base for further developing flavored (sour cream & onion, cheddar & sour cream, or Monterrey Jack dried cheese) products. All flavored spreads were significantly more acceptable than the plain formulation. Purchase intent of all flavored products also significantly increased once consumers had been given the information about potential health benefits associated with RBO and SPC in the spreads.
19723240	Uniformity of stem height in rice directly affects crop yield potential and appearance, and has become a vital index for rice improvement. In the present study, a doubled haploid (DH) population, derived from a cross between japonica rice Chunjiang 06 and indica rice TN1 was used to analyze the quantitative trait locus (QTL) for three related traits of panicle-layer-uniformity; that is, the tallest panicle height, the lowest panicle height and panicle layer disuniformity in two locations: Hangzhou (HZ) and Hainan (HN). A total of 16 QTLs for three traits distributed on eight chromosomes were detected in two different environments. Two QTLs, qTPH-4 and qTPH-8 were co-located with the QTLs for qLPH-4 and qLPH-8, which were only significant in the HZ environment, whereas the qTPH-6 and qLPH-6 located at the same interval were only significant in the HN environment. Two QTLs, qPLD-10-1 and qPLD-10-2, were closely linked to qTPH-10, and they might have been at the same locus. One QTL, qPLD-3, was detected in both environments, explaining more than 23% of the phenotypic variations. The CJ06 allele of qPLD-3 could increase the panicle layer disuniformity by 9.23 and 4.74 cm in the HZ and HN environments. Except for qPLD-3, almost all other QTLs for the same trait were detected only in one environment, indicating that these three traits were dramatically affected by environmental factors. The results may be useful for elucidation of the molecular mechanism of panicle-layer-uniformity and marker assisted breeding for super-rice.
19723241	In the present paper, we identified and cloned OsDHODH1 encoding a putative cytosolic dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (DHODH) in rice. Expression analysis indicated that OsDHODH1 is upregulated by salt, drought and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA), but not by cold. By prokaryotic expression, we determined the enzymatic activity of OsDHODH1 and found that overproduction of OsDHODH1 significantly improved the tolerance of Escherichia coli cells to salt and osmotic stresses. Overexpression of the OsDHODH1 gene in rice increased the DHODH activity and enhanced plant tolerance to salt and drought stresses as compared with wild type and OsDHODH1-antisense transgenic plants. Our findings reveal, for the first time, that cytosolic dihydroorotate dehydrogenase is involved in plant stress response and that OsDHODH1 could be used in engineering crop plants with enhanced tolerance to salt and drought.
19723247	In order to explore the relevant molecular genetic mechanisms of photosynthetic rate (PR) and chlorophyll content (CC) in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we conducted a series of related experiments using a population of recombinant inbred lines (Zhenshan97B x IRAT109). We found a significant correlation between CC and PR (R= 0.19**) in well-watered conditions, but no significant correlation during water stress (r= 0.08). We detected 13 main quantitative trait loci (QTLs) located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 10, which were associated with CC, including six QTLs located on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 during water stress, and seven QTLs located on chromosomes 2, 3, 4, 6, and 10 in well-watered conditions. These QTLs explained 47.39% of phenotypic variation during water stress and 56.19% in well-watered conditions. We detected four main QTLs associated with PR; three of them (qPR2, qPR10, qPR11) were located on chromosomes 2, 10, and 11 during water stress, and one (qPR10) was located on chromosome 10 in well-watered conditions. These QTLs explained 34.37% and 18.41% of the phenotypic variation in water stress and well-watered conditions, respectively. In total, CC was largely controlled by main QTLs, and PR was mainly controlled by epistatic QTL pairs.
19723322	Biogenic emissions of methyl halides (CH3Cl, CH3Br and CH3I) are the major source of these compounds in the atmosphere; however, there are few reports about the halide profiles and strengths of these emissions. Halide ion methyltransferase (HMT) and halide/thiol methyltransferase (HTMT) enzymes concerning these emissions have been purified and characterized from several organisms including marine algae, fungi, and higher plants; however, the correlation between emission profiles of methyl halides and the enzymatic properties of HMT/HTMT, and their role in vivo remains unclear. Thirty-five higher plant species were screened, and high CH3I emissions and HMT/HTMT activities were found in higher plants belonging to the Poaceae family, including wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) and paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.), as well as the Brassicaceae family, including daikon radish (Raphanus sativus). The in vivo emission of CH3I clearly correlated with HMT/HTMT activity. The emission of CH3I from the sprouting leaves of R. sativus, T. aestivum and O. sativa grown hydroponically increased with increasing concentrations of supplied iodide. A gene encoding an S-adenosylmethionine halide/thiol methyltransferase (HTMT) was cloned from R. sativus and expressed in Escherichia coli as a soluble protein. The recombinant R. sativus HTMT (RsHTMT) was revealed to possess high specificity for iodide (I-), bisulfide ([SH]-), and thiocyanate ([SCN]-) ions. The present findings suggest that HMT/HTMT activity is present in several families of higher plants including Poaceae and Brassicaceae, and is involved in the formation of methyl halides. Moreover, it was found that the emission of methyl iodide from plants was affected by the iodide concentration in the cultures. The recombinant RsHTMT demonstrated enzymatic properties similar to those of Brassica oleracea HTMT, especially in terms of its high specificity for iodide, bisulfide, and thiocyanate ions. A survey of biogenic emissions of methyl halides strongly suggests that the HTM/HTMT reaction is the key to understanding the biogenesis of methyl halides and methylated sulfur compounds in nature.
19723671	There is no generally accepted picture of where, when, and how the domestic dog originated. Previous studies of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) have failed to establish the time and precise place of origin because of lack of phylogenetic resolution in the so far studied control region (CR), and inadequate sampling. We therefore analyzed entire mitochondrial genomes for 169 dogs to obtain maximal phylogenetic resolution and the CR for 1,543 dogs across the Old World for a comprehensive picture of geographical diversity. Hereby, a detailed picture of the origins of the dog can for the first time be suggested. We obtained evidence that the dog has a single origin in time and space and an estimation of the time of origin, number of founders, and approximate region, which also gives potential clues about the human culture involved. The analyses showed that dogs universally share a common homogenous gene pool containing 10 major haplogroups. However, the full range of genetic diversity, all 10 haplogroups, was found only in southeastern Asia south of Yangtze River, and diversity decreased following a gradient across Eurasia, through seven haplogroups in Central China and five in North China and Southwest (SW)Asia, down to only four haplogroups in Europe. The mean sequence distance to ancestral haplotypes indicates an origin 5,400-16,300 years ago (ya) from at least 51 female wolf founders. These results indicate that the domestic dog originated in southern China less than 16,300 ya, from several hundred wolves. The place and time coincide approximately with the origin of rice agriculture, suggesting that the dogs may have originated among sedentary hunter-gatherers or early farmers, and the numerous founders indicate that wolf taming was an important culture trait.
19724142	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) causes the serious disease bacterial blight in rice. The pepA (Xoo0834) gene from Xoo is one of around 100 genes that have been selected for the design of antibacterial drugs. The pepA gene encodes leucine aminopeptidase (LAP), an exopeptidase that catalyzes the hydrolysis of leucine residues from the N-terminus of a protein or peptide. This enzyme was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and crystallized, and preliminary X-ray structural studies have been carried out. The LAP crystal diffracted to 2.6 A resolution and belonged to the cubic space group P2(1)3. The unit-cell volume of the crystal was compatible with the presence of two monomers in the asymmetric unit.
19724824	Arsenic and antimony distribution in water, sediment, soil and plants in the Yata gold mine and surrounding area, southwestern China, was investigated, so as to elucidate the mobilisation, transport, and distribution of As and Sb in mine environments. While oxidation of sulfide minerals mobilises both As and Sb, gold extraction by cyanidation is found to mobilise a large amount of Sb. Strontium concentration in water is proposed as an indicator for the oxidation of sulfide minerals in mine environments rich in carbonate. The partitioning of As, Sb, Fe, Cu, Zn and Sr between suspended particulate matter (SPM) and water shows a particle concentration effect. The partition coefficient (K(d)) decreases in the order Fe > Zn > Cu > As = Sb > Sr, consistent with the low affinity of As and Sb to SPM and the significant presence of As and Sb in soluble phase of water. During the transport of metalloids in water downstream of the mine area, As is released from the particulate or sediment to water as a result of the slight increase of pH, whereas Sb is not. The accumulation of As and Sb in soil and prevalent plants is minor with exceptions of rice root and Equisetumarvensel. The As and Sb concentration in the plants appears to be independent of the total As and Sb concentration in soil.
19726222	The recent discovery of an endogenous hormonal activity for strigolactones in shoot branching was surprising since these molecules were thought to mostly play roles as signaling molecules between organisms. Even in the context of plant hormones, strigolactones appear to be different in that their role in plant development is quite restricted. This most probably reflects early days and new hormonal functions will most probably be found for these compounds in the future. In this respect, the exogenous role of strigolactones in parasitic plant seed germination may hint to functions of this compound in seed development. However, showing new roles for strigolactones in the seed or any other aspect of plant development for that matter will require developing assays in model genetic systems such as Arabidopsis and rice where we can take full advantage of the experimental tools that are available.
19727593	In the management of lake eutrophication, the regulation effect of Fe is considered, in addition to the controlling nitrogen- and phosphorus input. Based on the "Fe hypothesis", this paper tentatively applied plant spectral response to the remote sensing early-warning mechanism of lake eutrophication. A laboratory water culture experiment with rice (Oryza sativa L.) was conducted to study Fe uptake by plants and the chlorophyll concentration and visible-near infrared spectrum of vegetable leaves as well as their interrelations under Fe(2+) stress. Three spectral indices, i.e., A (1) (integral value of the changes of spectral reflectivity in the range 460-670 nm under Fe(2+) stress), A (2) (integral value of the changes of spectral reflectivity in the range of 760-1000 nm under Fe(2+) stress) and S (blue-shift range of red edge curve under Fe(2+) stress), were used to establish quantitative models about the relationships between the rice leaf spectrum and Fe(2+) stress. With the increase of Fe(2+) in a culture solution, the Fe content in rice plants increased, while the chlorophyll concentration in vegetative leaves decreased. The spectral reflectivity of vegetable leaves increased in the visible light band but decreased in the near infrared band, and the blue-shift range of the red edge curve increased. The indices A (1), A (2) and S all had significant correlations with the Fe content in rice leaves, the correlation coefficient being respectively 0.951 (P < 0.01), -0.988 (P < 0.01) and 0.851 (P < 0.01), and simulated (multiple correlation coefficients R (2) > 0.96) and predict the Fe level in rice leaves.
19729221	Vitamins are plant growth regulators and activators of defense responses against pathogens. The cytomolecular mechanisms involved in the induction of resistance by chemicals especially vitamins on monocotyledonous plants are largely unknown. Here, we show that riboflavin, which acts as a defense activator in rice against economically important sheath blight caused by Rhizoctonia solani, primed the expression of lipoxygenase (LOX) as a key gene in octadecanoid pathway, and enhanced lignification. Exogenous jasmonic acid (JA) application on rice induces resistance against R. solani in a manner similar to riboflavin. Application of jasmonate-deficient rice mutant hebiba and using a LOX inhibitor revealed the main role of octadecanoid pathway in riboflavin-induced resistance (IR). In riboflavin-treated inoculated plants, upregulation of phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) expression, as a major marker of phenylpropanoid pathway, was detected downstream of LOX upregulation. Co-application of riboflavin and 5, 8, 11, 14-eicosatetraynoic acid (ETYA) on rice leaves revealed no upregulation of PAL and no priming in lignification. Furthermore, lower levels of PAL transcripts and lignin were detected in hebiba compared with control. These findings indicate the role of octadecanoid pathway in the induction of phenylpropanoid metabolism leading to lignification as a novel mechanism of riboflavin-IR in Oryza sativa-R. solani pathosystem.
19729868	Postprandial hypertriglyceridemia is recognized as an independent risk factor for cardiovascular disease. The aim of this study was to identify differences between fasting and postprandial TG levels, focusing on the influence of waist circumference. Subjects included 1,505 men and 798 women aged 3865 years who were not taking medications for diabetes or dyslipidemia. Fasting TG levels were measured after an overnight fast, and postprandial TG levels were measured 2 hours after a standardized rice-based lunch (total 740 kcal, 20 g fat, 30 g protein, and 110 g carbohydrates) in the afternoon on the same day. Fasting and postprandial TG levels were highly correlated in both men (r=0.86, p<0.001) and women (r=0.84, p<0.001). Waist circumference was positively correlated with fasting TG (r=0.38 in men and r=0.36 in women) and postprandial TG (r=0.42 in men and r=0.45 in women), respectively. On multiple regression analyses, the association of waist circumference with postprandial TG was still significant (standardized beta=0.10 in men and standardized beta=0.15 in women, p<0.001) after the inclusion of HbA1c, age, high-density-lipoprotein (HDL)-cholesterol, alcohol consumption, and fasting TG in the regression model. Postprandial TG has a better relation with waist circumference than fasting TG.
19730818	Enolase-phosphatase (E1), as an enzyme, is involved in methionine salvage pathway in many prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms. But the identity and function of E1 in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) remain undetermined. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of E1 gene, named xep, from Xoo. Sequence analysis shows that XEP is highly conserved among the six Xoo strains we investigated and all other Xanthomonas species. The strain with an insertion mutation in xep could not grow when methylthioadenosine (MTA) was used as the sole sulfur source, but its growth in rice leaves was comparable to that of wild-type strain. Furthermore, the mutant also showed less S-adenosylmethionine (SAM) and lower gene expression of sulfate reduction gene raxQ, compared to wild-type bacterial cells. Introduction of wild-type xep gene to the mutant resulted in the full restoration of growth on MTA, the SAM quantity and the expression level of raxQ. The results demonstrate that xep is involved in the predicted methionine salvage pathway and an inactive form of this gene results in a decreased SAM level in vivo. Our data also indicate that SAM may play a role in the regulation of sulfur reduction at the transcriptional level in Xoo.
19731691	In accordance with a new international standard set by the Codex Alimentarius Commission for cadmium (Cd) contentin rice grain, Japan must perform large-scale remediation of paddy fields polluted with lowto moderate levels of Cd. Phytoextraction using hyperaccumulating wild plants has been proposed as a low-cost, environmentally friendly restoration technology. However, because of difficulties with sowing, weed and disease control, and harvesting, hyperaccumulators may not be suitable for large-scale phytoextraction in polluted paddy fields. Here, we demonstrated phytoextraction using Indica-type rice cultivars capable of accumulating Cd at high levels. Phytoextraction with the Indica rice Chokoukoku grown for 2 years without irrigation after drainage removed 883 g Cd ha(-1), reduced the total soil Cd content by 38%, and reduced the grain Cd content in subsequently grown Japonica food rice by 47% without decreasing yield. The results suggest that phytoextraction with Chokoukoku can remove Cd from paddy fields polluted with low to moderate levels of Cd and reduce the grain Cd concentration of Japonica food rice cultivars to below the Codex standard within a reasonable time frame. This approach will help reduce the risk of Cd contamination of rice from paddy fields.
19731713	For up to 1 billion people worldwide, insufficient dietary intake of selenium (Se) is a serious health constraint. Cereals are the dominant Se source for those on low protein diets, as typified by the global malnourished population. With crop Se content constrained largely by underlying geology, regional soil Se variations are often mirrored by their locally grown staples. Despite this, the Se concentrations of much of the world's rice, the mainstay of so many, is poorly characterized, for both total Se content and Se speciation. In this study, 1092 samples of market sourced polished rice were obtained. The sampled rice encompassed dominant rice producing and exporting countries. Rice from the U.S. and India were found to be the most enriched, while mean average levels were lowest in Egyptian rice: approximately 32-fold less than their North American equivalents. By weighting country averages by contribution to either global production or export, modeled baseline values for both were produced. Based on a daily rice consumption of 300 g day(-1), around 75% of the grains from the production and export pools would fail to provide 70% of daily recommended Se intakes. Furthermore, Se localization and speciation characterization using X-ray fluorescence (micro-XRF) and X-ray absorption near edge structure (micro-XANES) techniques were investigated in a Se-rich sample. The results revealed that the large majority of Se in the endosperm was present in organic forms.
19731720	For the world's population, rice consumption is a major source of inorganic arsenic (As), a nonthreshold class 1 carcinogen. Reducing the amount of total and inorganic As within the rice grain would reduce the exposure risk. In this study, grain As was measured in 76 cultivars consisting of Bangladeshi landraces, improved Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) cultivars, and parents of permanent mapping populations grown in two field sites in Bangladesh, Faridpur and Sonargaon, irrigated with As-contaminated tubewell water. Grain As ranged from 0.16 to 0.74 mg kg(-1) at Faridpur and from 0.07 to 0.28 mg kg(-1) at Sonargaon. Highly significant cultivar differences were detected and a significant correlation (r = 0.802) in the grain As between the two field sites was observed, indicating stable genetic differences in As accumulation. The cultivars with the highest concentration of grain As were the Bangladeshi landraces. Landraces with red bran had significantly more grain As than the cultivars with brown bran. The percent of inorganic As decreased linearly with increasing total As, but genetic variation within this trend was identified. A number of local cultivars with low grain As were identified. Some tropical japonica cultivars with low grain As have the potential to be used in breeding programs and genetic studies aiming to identify genes which decrease grain As.
19732160	We present the closed form of a general steady-state shape factor for a partially penetrating well in a uniform anisotropic aquifer. Our simple analytical expression for the shape factor has a uniform representation for full range of parameters and meets or exceeds the accuracy of previous results obtained through semiempirical methods (e.g., Bouwer and Rice [1976] equations). This general shape factor pertains to the flow of fluids (water or air) in subsurface formations when the upper formation boundary has constant potential and the lower boundary is impermeable. The results of our investigation are directly applicable to analyses of (1) slug tests with falling or rising head and (2) injection/extraction tests with constant head, essential techniques for the characterization of hydraulic conductivity of aquifers, streambeds, or lakebeds as well as the design of aquifer and soil remediation systems.
19732459	Telomeric and subtelomeric regions are essential for genome stability and regular chromosome replication. In this work, we have characterized the wheat BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) clones containing Spelt1 and Spelt52 sequences, which belong to the subtelomeric repeats of the B/G genomes of wheats and Aegilops species from the section Sitopsis. The BAC library from Triticum aestivum cv. Renan was screened using Spelt1 and Spelt52 as probes. Nine positive clones were isolated; of them, clone 2050O8 was localized mainly to the distal parts of wheat chromosomes by in situ hybridization. The distribution of the other clones indicated the presence of different types of repetitive sequences in BACs. Use of different approaches allowed us to prove that seven of the nine isolated clones belonged to the subtelomeric chromosomal regions. Clone 2050O8 was sequenced and its sequence of 119,737 bp was annotated. It is composed of 33% transposable elements (TEs), 8.2% Spelt52 (namely, the subfamily Spelt52.2) and five non-TE-related genes. DNA transposons are predominant, making up 24.6% of the entire BAC clone, whereas retroelements account for 8.4% of the clone length. The full-length CACTA transposon Caspar covers 11,666 bp, encoding a transposase and CTG-2 proteins, and this transposon accounts for 40% of the DNA transposons. The in situ hybridization data for 2050O8 derived subclones in combination with the BLAST search against wheat mapped ESTs (expressed sequence tags) suggest that clone 2050O8 is located in the terminal bin 4BL-10 (0.95-1.0). Additionally, four of the predicted 2050O8 genes showed significant homology to four putative orthologous rice genes in the distal part of rice chromosome 3S and confirm the synteny to wheat 4BL. Satellite DNA sequences from the subtelomeric regions of diploid wheat progenitor can be used for selecting the BAC clones from the corresponding regions of hexaploid wheat chromosomes. It has been demonstrated for the first time that Spelt52 sequences were involved in the evolution of terminal regions of common wheat chromosomes. Our research provides new insights into the microcollinearity in the terminal regions of wheat chromosomes 4BL and rice chromosome 3S.
1973286	The amelioration of aflatoxicosis in broiler and Leghorn chickens was examined by feeding a hydrated, sodium calcium aluminosilicate (HSCAS) or activated charcoal. In three experiments, HSCAS or activated charcoal at a concentration of .5% of the total diet were incorporated into diets for broiler and Leghorn chicks containing either no added, purified aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), 7.5 mg of AFB1 per kg, or 5 mg of aflatoxin (AF) per kg (produced by Aspergillus parasiticus on rice). Compared to the controls, the AFB1 reduced BW gains at 0 to 3 wk by 21 to 38% in broilers; and the AF reduced BW gains at 0 to 4 wk in Leghorns by 20 percent. The HSCAS significantly diminished the growth-inhibitory effects of AFB1 or of AF on growing chicks by 50 to 67 percent. Feeding 5 mg of AF per kg of diet with or without charcoal to Leghorn chicks caused a significant increase in the relative weights of the liver, kidney, proventriculus, and gizzard as well as significant increases in activity of serum gamma glutamyltransferase; also, significant decreases in the relative bursa weights as well as the concentrations of serum total protein and albumin. With the exception of the relative bursa weights, the toxic effects caused by aflatoxin were prevented or were reduced by adding hydrated, sodium calcium aluminosilicate. These data suggest that HSCAS can modulate the toxicity of AFB1 and AF in the chicken; however, adding activated charcoal to the diet did not appear to have protective properties against the effects of aflatoxin B1 or of aflatoxin.
19732936	The plant availability and phytotoxicity of soil bound residues (BR) of herbicide ZJ0273, a novel acetolactate synthase (ALS) potential inhibitor, to rice (Oryza sativa L.) and corn (Zea mays L.) was investigated in three different soils including a Fluvio-marine yellow loamy soil (S(1)), a Red clayey soil (S(2)), and a Coastal saline soil (S(3)), using (14)C-labeling tracer and bioassay techniques. When soils were amended with BR at 0.6, 1.2 and 1.8 nmol g(-1), dose-dependent and significant inhibition was observed for rice seedlings within 14d after treatment, but no significant inhibition occurred to corn seedlings in the same treatment. Radioactive analysis of soil extracts following sequential extractions showed that the (14)C labeled residues of ZJ0273 were released from the amended soil BR upon planting. For example, when amended with 1.8 nmol g(-1), about 68.3%, 57.0%, and 61.1%, respectively, of the added BR were released in S(1), S(2), and S(3) planted with rice seedlings, whereas 38.9%, 32.7% and 32.6% became available for uptake in the corresponding soils planted with corn seedlings. The released compounds were identified as ZJ0273 and its degradation products M1 and M2, with M2 as the primary component. Bioassay on rice showed that concentration for 50% inhibition (IC(50)) of ZJ0273, M1, and M2 were 33.16, 1.93 and 0.49 microM, respectively. Therefore, BR formed after application of ZJ0273 may become available for plant uptake during rice cultivation and lead to phytotoxic effects, and the phytotoxicity is mainly caused by the release of the biologically active metabolite M2. This knowledge is valuable for designing crop rotation practices so that crop injury and yield losses due to carry-over herbicide phytotoxicity may be avoided.
19733090	In this study, a flavonoid malonyltransferase (OsMaT-2) was cloned from Oryza sativa, and the recombinant protein OsMaT-2 was purified via affinity chromatography. OsMaT-2 utilized a variety of flavonoid glucosides, including flavanone glucosides, flavone glucosides, flavonol glucosides, and isoflavone glucosides as substrates, but did not utilize anthocyanin. As an acyl donor, OsMaT-2 utilized only malonyl-CoA. Based on reactions with various quercetin 3-O-sugars, we identified the probable position of malonylation as the 6''-hydroxyl group of the sugar. This is the first report, to the best of our knowledge, of the cloning of a flavonoid malonyltransferase from O. sativa.
19734025	Biosorption of divalent metal ions, i.e. Pb(II), Cd(II), Zn(II) and Cu(II) onto rice husk activated (RHA) is investigated over pH range (1-10) via batch adsorption technique. The chemical and thermal activation of rice husk with 0.1M HNO(3) and 1M K(2)CO(3) at 473 K enhanced the removal efficiency of RHA (35+/-2.1-99+/-0.5%, 33+/-1.2-97+/-0.6%, 32+/-1.3-96+/-0.8% and 28+/-1.8-95+/-0.9% before and after treatment, respectively). The surface area analysis of RHA by BET (Brunauer, Emmett and Teller) nitrogen adsorption method provided pore area and average pore diameter to be 542+/-2.3m(2)g(-1) and 1076+/-5.6 nm respectively. SEM and FTIR analyses of RHA were carried out to determine the surface morphology and functional groups involved in metal binding mechanism, respectively. The adsorption equilibrium was well described by Freundlich, Langmuir and Dubinin-Radushkevish (D-R) isotherm models by employing (4.8-48, 8.9-89, 15.3-153 and 15.7-157)x10(-5)M solution concentrations of sorbates, respectively, at equilibrium time of 20 min at pH 6 and onto 0.2g of sorbent. The kinetics of mass transfer and intra-particle diffusion for metal ions sorption onto RHA were studied with Lagergren and Morris-Weber kinetic models. The numerical values of thermodynamic parameters indicated the exothermic nature, spontaneity and feasibility of the sorption process. The desorption study of metal components from RHA surface was carried out with 0.1M HCl. The sorption mechanism developed illustrates the strong interactions of sorbates with the active sites of the sorbent coupled with efficient and environmentally clean exploitation of rice waste product.
19734433	The concentration of essential mineral nutrients in the edible portion of plants such as grains may affect the nutritional value of these foods, while concentrations of toxic minerals in the plant are matter of food safety. Minerals taken up by the roots from soils are normally redirected at plant nodes before they are finally transported into developing seeds. However, the molecular mechanisms involved in this process have not been identified so far. Herein, we report on a transporter (Lsi6) responsible for the redirection of a plant nutrient at the node. Lsi6 is a silicon transporter in rice (Oryza sativa), and its expression in node I below the panicles is greatly enhanced when the panicle is completely emerged. Lsi6 is mainly localized at the xylem transfer cells located at the outer boundary region of the enlarged large vascular bundles in node I. Knockout of Lsi6 decreased Si accumulation in the panicles but increased Si accumulation in the flag leaf. These results suggest that Lsi6 is a transporter involved in intervascular transfer (i.e., transfer of silicon from the large vascular bundles coming from the roots to the diffuse vascular bundles connected to the panicles). These findings will be useful for selectively enhancing the accumulation of essential nutrients and reducing toxic minerals in the edible portion of cereals.
1973448	Cattle are the primary host for the major pest mosquito Psorophora columbiae in the rice production region of the Gulf-south. Annual captures of Ps. columbiae, Anopheles crucians and An. quadrimaculatus in New Jersey light traps in Acadia Parish in 1984 were correlated with cattle density within 0.8 km of the trap (R2 = 97, 68 and 74%, respectively). Furthermore, 7 of 10 mosquito species commonly trapped were significantly correlated with cattle density (average R2 = 82%). This work documents host abundance as a key factor in the population dynamics and distribution of most of the important riceland mosquitoes.
19734659	The application of exogenous proline and glycinebetaine (betaine) confers salt tolerance on plants under salt stress. The effects of exogenous proline and betaine on apoplastic flow in rice plants under saline conditions were investigated using trisodium-8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonic acid (PTS), an apoplastic tracer. Rice plants took up more PTS under light conditions than under dark conditions. Salt stress increased PTS uptake and Na(+) content of rice leaves, but did not affect K(+) content, resulting in a lower K(+)/Na(+) ratio. Addition of proline or betaine to the saline medium suppressed Na(+)-induced PTS uptake and Na(+) accumulation, while the K(+) content was slightly increased, which led to a high K(+)/Na(+) ratio under saline conditions. These results suggest that exogenous proline and betaine suppressed Na(+)-enhanced apoplastic flow to reduce Na(+) uptake in rice plants.
19734715	Small interfering synthetic double-stranded RNA (siRNA) was applied to suppress the expression of the human cytotoxic- T-lymphocyte antigen 4-immunoglobulin (hCTLA4Ig) gene transformed in transgenic rice cell cultures. The sequence of the 21-nucleotide siRNA was deliberately designed and synthesized with overhangs to inactivate the expression of hCTLA4Ig. The chemically synthesized siRNA duplex was combined with polyethyleneimine (PEI) at a mass ratio of 1:10 (0.33 microg siRNA:3.3 microg PEI) to produce complexes. The siRNA complexes (siRNA+PEI) were labeled with Cy3 in order to subsequently confirm the delivery by fluorescent microscopy. In addition, the cells were treated with sonoporation at 40 kHz and 419 W for 90 s to improve the delivery. The siRNA complexes alone inhibited the expression of hCTLA4Ig to 45% compared with control. The siRNA complexes delivered with sonoporation downregulated the production of hCTLA4Ig to 73%. Therefore, we concluded that the delivery of siRNA complexes into plant cells could be enhanced successfully by sonoporation.
19736610	In this report, we present a 68-year-old man with rice body formation in the flexor tendon sheath of the fingers without any inflammatory diseases such as tuberculosis or rheumatoid arthritis. The patient visited our institute in March 2004 with a one-month history of swelling and pain of the right distal forearm. Laboratory data were within normal limits, and the rheumatoid factor was negative. He had no history of tuberculosis, and the tuberculin reaction was weakly positive. Magnetic resonance (MR) images showed a mass measuring 6 cm x 4 cm around the flexor tendons of the forearm. Many rice bodies had been erupted from a small hole of the fibrous wall of the mass at the time of incisional biopsy performed in June 2004. Histological diagnosis was synovitis with fibrous loose bodies. In July 2004, spontaneous ruptures of the right fourth and fifth flexor tendons occurred. Open repair was performed in August 2004. The patient regained good function of the operated fingers with no evidence of recurrence at the latest follow-up in March 2009.
19736752	Chicken feathers, discarded as bioorganic wastes from poultry processing industries, are rich in keratin (structural protein). Deoiled rice bran (DRB), in contrast, is an agrowaste product consisting of protein, fiber, and carbohydrates. This study highlights a new medium for producing biopesticides from these bioorganic wastes, by culturing Bacillus sphaericus (Bs) and B. thuringiensis subsp. israelensis (Bti), to synthesize mosquitocidal toxins. Biochemical studies indicated that the amount of mosquitocidal spore/crystal toxins produced from the experimental culture medium (chicken feather waste [CFW] + DRB) is higher than that from the conventional medium (Nutrient Yeast Extract Salt Medium [NYSM]). The bacteria produced in these media (NYSM, CFW, DRB, and CFW + DRB) were bioassayed against mosquito vectors, and the toxic effect was found to be statistically similar (fiducial limits overlapping). Cost analysis based on the raw materials, indicated that, the use of CFW and DRB, as culture medium, is highly economical, for the industrial production of these mosquito pathogenic bacilli.
19736763	The widespread use of insecticides is known to cause resurgence in Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) populations, a serious insect pest of rice, Orzya sativa L., crops in Asia. The current study investigated insecticide-induced changes in protein, RNA, and DNA levels in the ovary and fat body of adult female N. lugens. Potted rice plants were sprayed with different concentrations of imidacloprid, triazophos, and detamethrin. The results showed that all three insecticides caused a significant increase in protein and RNA contents in the ovary and fat body of adult females developed from nymphs fed on treated plants compared with those from on untreated plants, although there was no significant effect on DNA content. In general, protein and RNA contents in both ovary and fat body increased linearly with insecticide concentrations or days after emergence (DAEs) when they were applied. There was a significant correlation between protein content and RNA content in both ovary and fat body. In addition, the relationship between ratios of RNA to protein in ovary and fat body of adult female N. lugens and insecticide concentrations showed a significant positive correlation for most DAEs of imidacloprid and several DAEs of triazophos and deltamethrin treatments. These findings suggest that RNA in both ovary and fat body was more sensitive to insecticides and that the insecticide-induced changes in RNA content in turn influence protein synthesis in ovary and fat body. Consistently, RNA-to-protein ratios in ovary and fat body were approximately 0.42 in all treatments and controls.
19736766	Results of planting date and insecticide efficacy experiments targeting Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) on rice, Oryza sativa L., in southeastern Texas between 2002 and 2007 were used to determine density-yield relationships as a function of planting date. Soil core samples were collected on two dates during main crop development to estimate immature L. oryzophilus populations followed by main and ratoon crop harvests. Analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) revealed that planting date did not affect the density-main crop yield relationship during most years and that these relationships varied substantially among years. For ratoon crop yield, an effect of main crop L. oryzophilus immature infestation was detected during some years, but the real effect of these populations on ratoon crop yield remains unclear. Using estimates of yield reduction per L. oryzophilus immature, economic injury levels were calculated. Main crop yields from treated plots and first soil core sample L. oryzophilus immature populations from untreated plots were significantly higher in plots planted at recommended dates than in plots planted earlier or later. This suggests that the presence of high populations of reproductive L. oryzophilus coincides with the period when rice fields planted at optimum dates are flooded. Results from this study reinforce the importance of managing L. oryzophilus populations when planting rice at recommended dates in southeastern Texas.
19736778	The midge Orseolia oryzae (Wood-Mason) (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae) is a major and endemic pest throughout Asia. The pest is difficult to manage in view of a mixture of biotypes co-occurring in the same location and showing variable response to cultivated rice, Oryza sativa L., varieties and differentials. To develop an understanding of the resistance mechanism(s), studies were initiated during wet 2005 and 2006 in Coastal Karnataka. Antibiosis was the predominant resistance category. The maggots survived but as first instar only on all the resistant genotypes. On susceptible genotypes, larvae reached second instar at 7 d after release, third instar at 14 d after release, and pupal stage at 18 d after adult release. However, in certain resistant genotypes, maggot mortality was evident in the absence of the susceptible plant silver shoot condition. In all resistant genotypes, distinct antibiosis was observed at 14 d after adult release. Antixenosis was evident in few genotypes. So, the midge resistance in rice is manifested as a mixture of antixenosis and antibiosis. Estimation of biochemical constituents in rice shoot apices of selected resistant genotypes revealed higher levels of total phenols and total free amino acids compared with susceptible genotypes. But, the amount of total sugars, reducing sugars, crude proteins, and amino acids were not related to resistance. Biochemical profiles in relation to midge infestation showed increased phenol and decreased proline and indole acetic acid content in the growing apical meristem of resistant genotypes compared with susceptible genotypes.
19736782	A choice test revealed that Hessian fly, Mayetiola destructor (Say) (Diptera: Cecidomyiidae), adults deposited approximately 3 times more eggs on wheat (Triticum spp.), seedlings than on barley (Hordeum spp.) or rice, Oryza sativa L., seedlings. On a barley seedling, 49.4% of eggs were deposited on either the abaxial leaf surface or the coleoptile and first leaf sheath (C&FLS), where newly hatched larvae die due to their inability to migrate into the interspace between leaf sheaths. In comparison, only 14% of eggs were deposited on the abaxial leaf surface or C&FLS on a wheat seedling. The average death rate of Hessian fly larvae in seedlings of an apparently susceptible barley line was 60%, compared with only 10% in seedlings of a susceptible wheat cultivar. The development of Hessian fly larvae was also much slower in barley seedlings than in wheat seedlings. It took 12 d for Hessian fly larvae to finish the first and second instars in susceptible barley seedlings, compared with 10 d in susceptible wheat seedlings under the same conditions. These results indicate that barley is not a good host for the Hessian fly. Our results also confirmed that rice is a nonhost for the Hessian fly. The resistance mechanism in rice was different from that in R gene resistant wheat. Hessian fly larvae grew a little and died more slowly in rice seedlings, whereas Hessian fly larvae died quickly without growth in resistant wheat.
19736783	We evaluated the efficacy of three diatomaceous earth (DE) formulations, Dryacide, Protect-It, and Insecto, against three Psocoptera species, Liposcelis entomophila (Enderlein) (Liposcelididae), Lepinotus reticulatus Enderlein (Trogiidae), and Liposcelis decolor (Pearman), in the laboratory. Bioassays were conducted in three grain commodities, wheat, rice and maize, at 30 degrees C and 75% RH, and the DEs were applied at the recommended dose rates of 1,000, 400, and 500 ppm for Dryacide, Protect-It, and Insecto, respectively. Differences in adult mortality were found among grains and DEs for L. entomophila and L. reticulatus, but these trends were not consistent for all combinations tested. Type of grain and DE did not affect L. decolor mortality significantly. Moreover, mortality increased with increasing exposure time for L. entomophila and L. reticulatus, but there was no effect of exposure time on L. decolor. After 7 d of exposure, mortalities of L. entomophila, L. reticulatus, and L. decolor were 56, 55, and 40%, respectively, and the respective mortality levels after 14 d were 63, 71, and 42%. Progeny production after 30 d was significantly suppressed for all species in the treated grains. However, progeny production was still high in the treated grains and reached 54, 42, and 76 individuals/10 g of grain for L. entomophila, L. reticulatus, and L. decolor, respectively. Progeny production did not vary with commodity. Our results suggest that DEs, when used alone, will not provide effective control of psocids.
19736784	The present work reports research efforts toward development and evaluation of a unified framework for automatic bioacoustic recognition of specific insect pests. Our approach is based on capturing and automatically recognizing the acoustic emission resulting from typical behaviors, e.g., locomotion and feeding, of the target pests. After acquisition the signals are amplified, filtered, parameterized, and classified by advanced machine learning methods on a portable computer. Specifically, we investigate an advanced signal parameterization scheme that relies on variable size signal segmentation. The feature vector computed for each segment of the signal is composed of the dominant harmonic, which carry information about the periodicity of the signal, and the cepstral coefficients, which carry information about the relative distribution of energy among the different spectral sub-bands. This parameterization offers a reliable representation of both the acoustic emissions of the pests of interest and the interferences from the environment. We illustrate the practical significance of our methodology on two specific cases: 1) a devastating pest for palm plantations, namely, Rhynchophorus ferrugineus Olivier and 2) a pest that attacks warehouse stored rice (Oryza sativa L.), the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae (L.) (both Coleoptera: Curculionidae, Dryophorinae). These pests are known in many countries around the world and contribute for significant economical loss. The proposed approach led to detection results in real field trials, reaching 99.1% on real-field recordings of R. ferrugineus and 100% for S. oryzae.
1973699
19737100	Rice tungro disease (RTD) is caused by Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) and Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) transmitted by green leafhoppers. Rice cv. Utri Merah is highly resistant to RTD. To define the RTD resistance of Utri Merah, near-isogenic lines (NIL, BC(5) or BC(6)) developed from Utri Merah and susceptible cv. Taichung Native 1 (TN1) were evaluated for reactions to RTSV and RTBV. TW16 is an NIL (BC(5)) resistant to RTD. RTBV was able to infect both TN1 and TW16 but the levels of RTBV were usually significantly lower in TW16 than in TN1. Infection of RTSV was confirmed in TN1 by a serological test but not in TW16. However, the global gene-expression pattern in an RTSV-resistant NIL (BC(6)), TW16-69, inoculated with RTSV indicated that RTSV can also infect the resistant NIL. Infection of RTSV in TW16 was later confirmed by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction but the level of RTSV was considerably lower in TW16 than in TN1. Examination for virus accumulation in another NIL (BC(6)), TW16-1029, indicated that all plants of TW16-1029 were resistant to RTSV, whereas the resistance to RTBV and symptom severity were segregating among the individual plants of TW16-1029. Collectively, these results suggest that RTD resistance of Utri Merah involves suppression of interacting RTSV and RTBV but the suppression trait for RTSV and for RTBV is inherited separately.
19737364	Higher plants maintain iron homeostasis by regulating the expression of iron (Fe)-related genes in accordance with Fe availability. The transcription factor IDEF1 regulates the response to Fe deficiency in Oryza sativa (rice) by recognizing CATGC sequences within the Fe deficiency-responsive cis-acting element IDE1. To investigate the function of IDEF1 in detail, we analyzed the response to Fe deficiency in transgenic rice plants exhibiting induced or repressed IDEF1 expression. Fe-deficiency treatment in hydroponic culture revealed that IDEF1 knock-down plants are susceptible to early-stage Fe deficiency, in contrast to IDEF1-induced plants. Time-course expression analyses using quantitative reverse-transcriptase PCR revealed that the IDEF1 expression level was positively correlated with the level of induction of the Fe utilization-related genes OsIRO2, OsYSL15, OsIRT1, OsYSL2, OsNAS1, OsNAS2, OsNAS3 and OsDMAS1, just after the onset of Fe starvation. However, this overall transactivation mediated by IDEF1 became less evident in subsequent stages. Microarray and in-silico analyses revealed that genes positively regulated by IDEF1, especially at the early stage, exhibit over-representation of CATGC and IDE1-like elements within the proximal promoter regions. These results indicate the existence of early and subsequent responses to Fe deficiency, with the former requiring IDEF1 more specifically. Proximal regions of IDEF1-regulated gene promoters also showed enrichment of RY elements (CATGCA), which regulate gene expression during seed maturation. The expression of several genes encoding late embryogenesis abundant proteins, including Osem, was induced in Fe-deficient roots and/or leaves in an IDEF1-dependent manner, suggesting a possible function of seed maturation-related genes in Fe-deficient vegetative organs.
19738551	Red yeast rice is a food product that has been used in Chinese cooking and medicine for centuries. It is available in the US in a capsule formulation and is often used by patients who want a "natural" product to lower cholesterol.
19739023	Rice bran extract (RBE) was fractionated by using ultrafiltration techniques. The obtained retentate (R) inhibited the browning of potato puree to a similar extent as RBE and more than it's permeate. The R that was incubated at pH 4.0, 5.0, and 6.0 inhibited the browning of potato puree more than R that was incubated at pH 7.0 or 8.0. Potato puree that was treated with heated R at 80 degrees C for 10 min had a browning value similar to that of puree treated with unheated R and lower than those treated with heated R at 40 or 60 degrees C for 10 min.
1973949	The medical importance, ecology and control of riceland mosquitoes using alternative strategies is reviewed. Over 135 pest and vector anopheline and culicine mosquito species found in association with riceland habitats and their medical importance are presented. Malaria and Japanese encephalitis are the two most serious human diseases transmitted by riceland mosquitoes, but they have been incriminated as vectors of dozens of arboviruses and other parasites and pathogens including the causal agents of West Nile and Rift Valley Fevers and lymphatic filariasis. Control of vector and pest mosquitoes using chemical pesticides has generated several problems including: insecticide resistance, safety risks for humans and domestic animals, and other environmental concerns. These problems and the high cost and sustainability of programs based predominantly on conventional insecticides have stimulated increased interest in integrated control measures in ricelands. The integrated pest management (IPM) strategy for mosquito control, also known as integrated vector control (IVC), is an ecologically based approach that may involve several complementary interventions used in combination or singly. Environmental management, and chemical, biological and mechanical control, comprise the elements of IVC proposed for use in or near riceland habitats. Some of the elements of environmental management include the use of intermittent irrigation; flushing of fields; use of rice cultivars that require less water; shifting of planting schedules to avoid optimal mosquito breeding conditions; relocation of communities or use of dry belt farming around them; and zooprophylaxis and other personal protection methods, especially use of insecticide-impregnated bed nets. Biological control agents that have been used successfully in rice fields include several species of larvivorous fish, a mermithid nematode (Romanomermis culicivorax), a fungus (Lagenidium giganteum) and bacteria (Bacillus thuringiensis var. israelensis and Bacillus sphaericus). The mermithid and the entomopathogens have demonstrated little or no adverse effects on populations of vertebrate and invertebrate nontarget organisms. The successful use of any particular method or combination of interventions for the control of riceland mosquitoes will depend on in-depth ecological studies on the target species and nontarget organisms, sound geographic reconnaissance and effective routine sampling and evaluation. When biological control agents are considered, additional background on the environmental factors limiting their efficacy will also be needed. In addition to the technical components of the various interventions employed in integrated control, sustained suppression of riceland mosquitoes and the diseases they transmit will require a greater sociocultural supportive background, particularly in developing countries.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
19740507	The clock-like diversification of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV), a widespread RNA plant virus that infects rice in Africa, was tested following a three-step approach with (i) an exhaustive search of recombinants, (ii) a comprehensive assessment of the selective constraints over lineages, and (iii) a stepwise series of tests of the molecular clock hypothesis. The first evidence of recombination in RYMV was found in East Africa, in the region most favorable to co-infection. RYMV evolved under a pronounced purifying selection, but the selection pressure did vary among lineages. There was no phylogenetic evidence of transient deleterious mutations. ORF2b, which codes for the polymerase and is the most constrained ORF, tends to diversify clock-like. With the other ORFs and the full genome, the departure from the strict clock model was limited. This likely reflects the dominant conservative selection pressure and the clock-like fixation of synonymous mutations.
19741004	Centromeres in eukaryotic species are defined by the presence of a centromere-specific histone H3 variant, CENH3. CENH3 plays a key role in recruiting other centromeric proteins; thus, it is the central component in kinetochore formation and centromere function. The CENH3 proteins in several plant and animal species were found to be under positive selection, which was hypothesized to respond to the rapid changing of the repetitive DNA sequences associated with the centromeres. Here, we report the expression and evolution of the CenH3 genes in two allotetraploid rice species as well as their representative diploid progenitor species. Both copies of the CenH3 genes were transcribed in the two allotetraploid species and showed a nonpreferential expression pattern. Contrasting positive and stabilizing selection of the CenH3 genes was associated with different diploid Oryza species. This lineage-specific adaptive evolution of CENH3 was maintained in the two allotetraploid species. Thus, we demonstrate that the allopolyploidization events did not alter the expression or evolutionary patterns of the CenH3 genes in the Oryza species.
19744160	In rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings, continuous white-light irradiation inhibited the growth of seminal roots but promoted the growth of crown roots. In this study, we examined the mechanisms of photoinhibition of seminal root growth. Photoinhibition occurred in the absence of nitrogen but increased with increasing nitrogen concentrations. In the presence of nitrogen, photoinhibition was correlated with coiling of the root tips. The seminal roots were most photosensitive 48-72 h after germination during the 7-day period after germination. White-light irradiation for at least 6 h was required for photoinhibition, and the Bunsen-Roscoe law of reciprocity was not observed. Experiments with phytochrome mutants showed that far-red light was perceived exclusively by phyA, red light was perceived by both phyA and phyB, and phyC had little or no role in growth inhibition or coiling of the seminal roots. These results also suggest that other blue-light photoreceptors are involved in growth inhibition of the seminal roots. Fluence-response curve analyses showed that phyA and phyB control very low-fluence response and low-fluence response, respectively, in the seminal roots. This was essentially the same as the growth inhibition previously observed at the late stage of coleoptile development (80 h after germination). The photoperceptive site for the root growth inhibition appeared to be the roots themselves. All three phytochrome species of rice were detected immunochemically in roots.
19744780	A simple, highly sensitive and environment-friendly method for the determination of trace amount of nickel ion in different matrices is proposed. In the preconcentration step, the nickel from 10 mL of an aqueous solution was extracted into 500 microL of ionic liquid, 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate [C(4)MIM][PF(6)], containing PAN as complexing agent. Subsequently, the PAN complex was back-extracted into 250 microL of nitric acid solution, and 100 microL of it was analyzed by flow injection flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FI-FAAS). The main parameter influencing the extraction and determination of nickel, such as pH, concentration of PAN, extraction time and temperature, ionic strength, and concentration of stripping acid solution, were optimized. An enhancement factor of 40.2 was achieved with 25 mL sample. The limit of detection (LOD) and quantification obtained under the optimum conditions were 12.5 and 41.0 microg L(-1), respectively. To validate the proposed methods two certified reference materials 681-I and BCR No. 288 were analyzed and the results were in good agreement with the certified values. The proposed method was successfully applied to determination of nickel in water samples, rice flour and black tea.
19744854	A gram positive bacterium (designated strain SRKP-3) that potentially accumulated polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHAs) was isolated from brackish water. From its morphological and physiological properties and nucleotide sequence of its 16S rRNA, it was suggested that strain SRKP-3 was similar to Bacillus megaterium. A four-factor central composite rotary design (CCRD) was employed to optimize the medium and to find out the interactive effects of four variables, viz. concentrations of dairy waste, rice bran, sea water and pH on PHB production. Using response surface methodology (RSM), a second-order polynomial equation was obtained by multiple regression analysis and a yield of 6.37 g/L of PHB dry weight was achieved from the optimized medium at pH 9. The same medium was utilized for fermentor studies by fed-batch culture. The dairy waste is fed at three different time intervals at 0 th, 12th and 24th hour to keep the carbon source as excess and PHB production was checked for every 3h. Maximum production of PHB (11.32 g/L) occurred at 36th hour. Dissolved oxygen was found to be major limiting nutrient that affected the PHB synthesis.
19745152	Miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are widespread in eukaryotic genomes, where they can attain high copy numbers despite a lack of coding capacity. However, little is known about how they originate and amplify. We performed a genome-wide screen of functional interactions between Stowaway MITEs and potential transposases in the rice genome and identified a transpositionally active MITE that possesses key properties that enhance transposition. Although not directly related to its autonomous element, the MITE has less affinity for the transposase than does the autonomous element but lacks a motif repressing transposition in the autonomous element. The MITE contains internal sequences that enhance transposition. These findings suggest that MITEs achieve high transposition activity by scavenging transposases encoded by distantly related and self-restrained autonomous elements.
19745569	Dwarfism is a common type of mutation in many plant species. The pathways and factors regulating biosynthesis and signaling of several plant growth regulators have been clarified through analyses of dwarf mutants in rice, Arabidopsis, pea, and maize. However, the genetic mechanisms controlling dwarfism are not well characterized, and the causal genes underlying most dwarf mutants are still uncovered. Here, we report a dominant mutant, Twisted dwarf 1-1 (Tid1-1), showing dwarfism and twisted growth in rice. Tid1-1 exhibit right helical growth of the leaves and stem and shortening of the roots. They also show an increased number of cells in the shoot apical meristem. Cells in the leaves of Tid1-1 are often ill-shapen, possibly owing to irregular cell division. Cell elongation in roots is suppressed in the elongation zone, and cells in the root apical meristem are enlarged. Map-based cloning of TID1 revealed that it encodes an alpha-tubulin protein comprising microtubules and is an ortholog of Arabidopsis LEFTY genes. Our analysis of the Tid1-1 mutant revealed that the dynamics of microtubules affects not only anisotropic growth in both dicots and monocots, but also meristematic activity and gross plant morphology.
19745573	In eukaryotic cells, intracellular transport is mediated by coated vesicular carriers. Coat proteins I (COPI) vesicles are involved in the retrograde transport from Golgi apparatus to the endoplasmic reticulum. The COPI complex is composed of ADP-ribosylation factor 1 and coatomer comprising seven subunits, termed alpha-zeta. We isolated and characterised a cDNA sequence from rainbow trout homolog to delta-subunit of COPI complex (delta-COP). Trout delta-COP gene encodes a protein of 509 aa including a characteristic Mu homology domain. Searches at the Ensemble Genome browser identified three additional teleostean delta-COP-like sequences from pufferfish, rice fish, and stickleback. Sequence identity of piscine delta-COP protein sequences is greater than 84%. Moreover, a phylogenetic analysis indicates that delta-COP protein sequences are strongly conserved among vertebrate species. delta-COP homologue is ubiquitously expressed in trout tissues. Quantitative Real-Time RT-PCR revealed that delta-COP is differentially expressed in liver and gill tissue of two rainbow trout strains, the freshwater strain STEELHEAD and the brackish water-adapted strain BORN.
19745575	Gamma-oryzanol, a group of phytosterol ferulates found in rice bran, possesses antioxidative activity and other bioactivities. The kinetics of thermal degradation of gamma-oryzanol in stripped rice bran oil (SRBO) were investigated under heating at 132, 160, 192 and 222 degrees C for 480, 140, 60 and 50 h, respectively. Losses of the overall gamma-oryzanol and its components (cycloartenyl ferulate, 24-methylene cycloartanyl ferulate, campesteryl ferulate and beta-sitosteryl ferulate) could be expressed by the first-order kinetics model. The rate constant of thermal degradation of gamma-oryzanol increased with increasing heating temperatures. The temperature dependence of the obtained rate constants was found to obey the Arrhenius equation. Campesteryl ferulate showed slightly more thermally resistant than other components at temperature lower than 160 degrees C. However, the change in the absorbance from 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) assay as a function of heating time exhibited the same pattern for the SRBO with and without gamma-oryzanol for all studied heating temperatures.
19745578	Although there are various determination methods for gamma -oryzanol contained in rice bran oil by absorptiometry, normal-phase HPLC, and reversed-phase HPLC, their accuracies and the correlations among them have not been revealed yet. Chloroform-containing mixed solvents are widely used as mobile phases in some HPLC methods, but researchers have been apprehensive about its use in terms of safety for the human body and the environment.In the present study, a simple and accurate determination method was developed by improving the reversed-phase HPLC method. This novel HPLC method uses methanol/acetonitrile/acetic acid (52/45/3 v/v/v), a non-chlorinated solvent, as the mobile phase, and shows an excellent linearity (y = 0.9527x + 0.1241, R(2) = 0.9974) with absorptiometry. The mean relative errors among the existing 3 methods and the novel method, determined by adding fixed amounts of gamma-oryzanol into refined rice salad oil, were -4.7% for the absorptiometry, -6.8% for the existing normal-phase HPLC, +4.6% for the existing reversed-phase HPLC, and -1.6% for the novel reversed-phase HPLC method. gamma -Oryzanol content in 12 kinds of crude rice bran oils obtained from different sources were determined by the four methods. The mean content of those oils were 1.75+/-0.18% for the absorptiometry, 1.29+/-0.11% for the existing normal-phase HPLC, 1.51+/-0.10% for the existing reversed-phase HPLC, and 1.54+/-0.19% for the novel reversed-phase HPLC method.
19746962	Propenols have been found to be common intermediates in the hydrocarbon combustion and they are present in substantial concentrations in a wide range of flames. However, the kinetics properties of these species in combustion flames have not received much attention. In this work, the mechanism and kinetics of the OH hydrogen abstraction from propenols are investigated. Three stable conformations of propenols, (E)-1-propenol, (Z)-1-propenol, and syn-propen-2-ol, are taken into consideration. The potential energy profiles for the three reaction systems have been first investigated by the CCSD(T) method. The geometric parameters and relative energies of the reactants, reactant complexes, transition states, product complexes, and products have been investigated theoretically. The rate constants are calculated in the temperature range of 200-3000 K by the Variflex code based on the weak collision master equation/microcanonical variational RRKM theory. For all considered reactions, our results support a stepwise mechanism involving the formation of a reactant complex in the entrance channel and a product complex in the exit channel. In the reaction of OH with (E)-1-propenol, the hydrogen abstractions from the -CH(3) and -OH sites are dominant and competitive with each other in the temperature range from 500 to 2000 K. Above 2000 K, the hydrogen abstraction from the -CH group bonded to O atom becomes dominant with a relative yield of 51.1% at 3000 K. In the reaction of OH with (Z)-1-propenol, the hydrogen abstractions from -CH(3), -CH bonded to O atom, and -OH are preferable in the temperature range from 500 to 1800 K, with the first two channels being competitive with each other. Above 1800 K, the hydrogen abstraction reaction from the CH group bonded to the CH(3) group becomes dominant with the branching ratio of 90.3% at 3000 K. In the reaction of OH with syn-propen-2-ol, the abstractions from the -CH(3) and -OH sites are competitive with each other when the temperature is higher than 500 K, and they become dominant above 800 K with the relative yields of 70.5% and 29.5% at 3000 K, respectively. The predicted total rate constants at the pressure of 1 atm fitted by modified three-parameter Arrhenius expressions in two different temperature ranges are also provided.
19747391	Cassava (Manihot esculenta Crantz), a starchy root crop grown in tropical and subtropical climates, is the sixth most important crop in the world after wheat, rice, maize, potato and barley. The repertoire of simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers for cassava is limited and warrants a need for a larger number of polymorphic SSRs for germplasm characterization and breeding applications. A total of 846 putative microsatellites were identified in silico from an 8,577 cassava unigene set with an average density of one SSR every 7 kb. One hundred and ninety-two candidate SSRs were screened for polymorphism among a panel of cassava cultivars from Africa, Latin America and Asia, four wild Manihot species as well as two other important taxa in the Euphorbiaceae, leafy spurge (Euphorbia esula) and castor bean (Ricinus communis). Of 168 markers with clean amplification products, 124 (73.8%) displayed polymorphism based on high resolution agarose gels. Of 85 EST-SSR markers screened, 80 (94.1%) amplified alleles from one or more wild species (M epruinosa, M glaziovii, M brachyandra, M tripartita) whereas 13 (15.3%) amplified alleles from castor bean and 9 (10.6%) amplified alleles from leafy spurge; hence nearly all markers were transferable to wild relatives of M esculenta while only a fraction was transferable to the more distantly related taxa. In a subset of 20 EST-SSRs assessed by fluorescence-based genotyping the number of alleles per locus ranged from 2 to 10 with an average of 4.55 per locus. These markers had a polymorphism information content (PIC) from 0.19 to 0.75 with an average value of 0.55 and showed genetic relationships consistent with existing information on these genotypes. A set of 124 new, unique polymorphic EST-SSRs was developed and characterized which extends the repertoire of SSR markers for cultivated cassava and its wild relatives. The markers show high PIC values and therefore will be useful for cultivar identification, taxonomic studies, and genetic mapping. The study further shows that mining ESTs is a highly efficient strategy for polymorphism detection within the cultivated cassava gene pool.
19747601	Cereal fermentations in Africa and Asia involve mainly the processing of maize, rice, sorghum and the millets. Lactic acid bacteria (Lactobacillus, Pediococcus), Enterobacter spp., yeasts (Candida, Debaryomyces, Endomycopsis, Hansenula, Pichia, Saccharomyces and Trichosporon spp.) and filamentous fungi (Amylomyces, Aspergillus, Mucor, and Rhizopus spp.) contribute to desirable modifications of taste, flavour, acidity, digestibility, and texture in non-alcoholic beverages (e.g., uji, and ben-saalga), porridges (e.g., mawè) and cooked gels (e.g., kenkey, idli, and mifen). In addition, alcoholic beverages (beers such as tchoukoutou and jnard; and spirits e.g. jiu) are obtained using malt, or using amylolytic mixed microbial starter cultures as generators of fermentable substrates. Wet processing, marketing of multi-purpose intermediate products, co-fermentation for texture and nutrition, and mixed culture fermentations as practiced in indigenous fermentation processes are of interest for industrial innovation and for better control of natural mixed culture fermentation systems. On the other hand, the nutritional properties of traditional cereal fermented products can be enhanced by increasing their nutrient and energy density, as well as by increasing their mineral status by combining mineral fortification and dephytinization.
19747624	Micronutrient malnutrition is a growing concern in the developing world, resulting in diverse health and social problems, such as mental retardations, impairments of the immune system and overall poor health. In recent years, the zinc (Zn) deficiency problem has received increasing attention and appears to be the most serious micronutrient deficiency together with vitamin A deficiency. Zinc deficiency is particularly widespread among children and represents a major cause of child death in the world. In countries where Zn deficiency is well documented as an important public health problem, cereal-based foods are the predominant source of daily calorie and protein intake. Because the concentration of Zn in cereal crops is inherently very low, growing cereals on potentially Zn-deficient soils further decreases grain Zn concentrations. It is, therefore, not surprising that high Zn deficiency incidence in humans occurs predominantly on areas where soils are deficient in plant-available Zn, as shown in many Southeast Asian countries. India has some of the most Zn-deficient soils in the world. Nearly 50% of cultivated soils in India are low in plant-available Zn; these soils are under intensive cultivation of wheat and rice with no or little application of Zn fertilizers. Consequently, cereal crops grown on such Zn-deficient soils contribute only marginally to daily Zn intake. In the rural areas of India, rice and wheat contributes nearly 75% of the daily calorie intake. These facts clearly point to an urgent need for improved Zn concentration of cereal grains in India. Recent calculations indicate that biofortification (enrichment) of rice and wheat grain with Zn, for example by breeding, may save lives of up to 48,000 children in India annually. Breeding new cereal genotypes for high grain Zn concentration is the most realistic and cost-effective strategy to address the problem. However, this strategy is a long-term one, and the size of plant-available Zn pools in soils may greatly affect the capacity of Zn-efficient (biofortified) cultivars to take up Zn and accumulate it in grains. Therefore, application of Zn-containing fertilizers represents a quick and effective approach to biofortifying cereal grains with Zn, thus being an excellent complementary tool to the breeding strategy for successful biofortification of cereals with Zn. Increasing evidence is available from field trials showing that soil and/or foliar application of Zn fertilizers improves grain Zn concentration up to 2- or 3-fold. In the countries where Zn deficiency is both a public health issue and an important soil constraint to crop production, like in India, enrichment of widely applied fertilizers with Zn would be an excellent investment for improving grain Zn while contributing to increased crop production. Recent work by the scientists of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute indicates that the use of Zn-enriched urea in rice and wheat significantly improves both grain Zn concentration and grain yield. It is obvious that enrichment of widely applied fertilizers with Zn and/or foliar application of Zn fertilizers appear to be a high priority with the strongest potential to alleviate Zn deficiency-related problems in India. A Government action and policy plan for enrichment of selected major fertilizers with Zn is required urgently.
19747813	The effects of temperature on the release of chemical components of six solid organic materials under conditions of oversaturation were investigated in this paper. The six materials were peat moss (PM), weathered coals (WC), charred rice husks (CRH), sawdust (Sd), turfgrass clippings (TC), and chicken manure (CM). Significant differences were observed in the available nitrogen and phosphorus content of the aqueous extracts of organic materials at different temperatures. The available nitrogen content in aqueous extracts of PM and WC at 25 degrees C was higher than that registered at 15 degrees C and 35 degrees C. Available nitrogen content in the aqueous extracts of CRH, Sd, TC, and WC at 35 degrees C was higher than at 15 degrees C and 25 degrees C. The available phosphorus content in the aqueous extracts of organic materials at 35 degrees C was higher than that available at 15 degrees C and 25 degrees C, with the exception of Sd. In addition, the release of available phosphorus in the aqueous solution of organic materials at different temperatures varied constantly for 108h. The release of potassium (K(+)) and sodium (Na(+)) ions in the aqueous extracts of organic materials was basically steady over time, with the exception of CM. High temperature (35 degrees C) may significantly hasten the release of K(+) from organic substrates (except for WC) with low temperatures significantly inhibiting release of K(+) in Sd and CRH. High temperatures (35 degrees C) might significantly facilitate the release of Na(+) in CM and TC. However, no significant differences were manifested in the release of Na(+) from organic substrates at different temperatures, with the exception of CM and TC. Moreover, no significant differences were observed in the release of calcium, magnesium and iron ions with time, nor were there any significant differences in the contents of iron ions in the aqueous extracts of organic materials at different temperatures. The results indicate that multiple mediums should be pretreated in water for a week before being used for planting. They should be used when all mineral elements of organic materials are steady and ignoring the effect of organic mediums.
19748112	Yusho (oil disease) is the name given to a food poisoning incident caused by rice bran oil that occurred in west Japan in 1968. The causative agents of Yusho are currently considered to be polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) and their by-products, such as dioxin like compounds. The levels of 2,3,4,7,8-penta-cholorodibenzofuran (PeCDF) are measured in the blood of Yusho patients who attend medical check-ups. The objectives of this study were to determine the half-life of PeCDF in these patients. Linear regression analysis was performed with the binary logarithm of PeCDF blood levels in Yusho patients as the dependent variable and the measurement year as the independent variable. The linear coefficient determined in this analysis is the reciprocal of the half-life. The half-life of PeCDF varied among patients. Among patients with PeCDF blood levels of 50pgg(-1) or higher, there were two groups: one showing a half-life of approximately 7 years and the other showing no reduction in PeCDF levels over time. The results indicate that there is a group of patients whose PeCDF levels are maintained at a high level. Our study suggests that a more complicated model is required to explain PeCDF excretion in humans.
19748180	The crude recycling of electronic and electric waste (e-waste) is now creating soil pollution problems with organic compounds such as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs). The present study aimed to compare the phytoremediation potential of four plant species (rice, alfalfa, ryegrass and tall fescue) for PCBs contaminated soil from Taizhou city, one of the largest e-waste recycling centers in China. In addition, the enhanced effects of randomly methylated-beta-cyclodextrins (RAMEB) on PCBs phytoremediation potential were evaluated. Higher PCBs removal percentages of 25.6-28.5% in rhizosphere soil were observed after 120 days, compared with those of the non-rhizosphere (10.4-16.9%) and unplanted controls (7.3%). The average PCBs removal percentages of four plant species increased from 26.9% to 37.1% in the rhizosphere soil with addition of RAMEB. Meanwhile, relatively high microbial counts and dehydrogenase activity were detected in planted soils and a stimulatory effect by RAMEB addition was found. The present study indicated that all the plant candidates were feasible for phytoremediation of PCBs contaminated soil from the e-waste recycling area, and tall fescue with RAMEB amendment seemed as a promising remediation strategy. High PCBs removal percentage was due to the increased PCBs bioavailability as well as biostimulation of microbial communities after plantation and RAMEB addition.
19748949	The spread of municipal solid waste (MSW) in Zanzibar municipality has been associated with environmental pollution, unpleasant city conditions, contamination of water sources and coastal areas together with harbouring of malaria vectors. The contamination has a close relationship with eruption of diarrhoea, cholera and typhoid which claim the lives of the residents. Most of the wastes are of domestic and market origin and have the potential for compost production. This study examined the possibility of composting MSW from Zanzibar municipality as an alternative way of SW management and assessed the nutrient contents of the compost for application in agricultural production. Two major classes of SW were selected for the study: municipal solid waste and rice milling by-products. The samples were composted aerobically and anaerobically. The results showed that aerobic composting reduced about 60% of the waste volume. This volume reduction suggests that composting can be a promising SW management technique by reducing the large demand of space for landfilling. Municipal solid waste composted under anaerobic conditions produced compost with relatively higher concentrations of dissolved species than that produced under aerobic conditions. The trace metal contents were higher in MSW than in rice milling by-products. It was found that the unmanaged compost collected from the dumping site had low nutrient contents and was enriched with trace metals. Generally, physico-chemical characteristics, nutrients and trace metal levels suggest that Zanzibar municipal solid waste can produce high-quality compost for application to a wide range of soil types to improve their fertility, under proper management.
19749151	AGAMOUS-like6 (AGL6) genes encode MIKC-type MADS box transcription factors and are closely related to SEPALLATA and AP1/FUL-like genes. Here, we focus on the molecular evolution and expression of the AGL6-like genes in grasses. We have found that AGL6-like genes are expressed in ovules, lodicules (second whorl floral organs), paleas (putative first whorl floral organs), and floral meristems. Each of these expression domains was acquired at a different time in evolution, indicating that each represents a distinct function of the gene product and that the AGL6-like genes are pleiotropic. Expression in the inner integument of the ovule appears to be an ancient expression pattern corresponding to the expression of the gene in the megasporangium and integument in gymnosperms. Expression in floral meristems appears to have been acquired in the angiosperms and expression in second whorl organs in monocots. Early in grass evolution, AGL6-like orthologs acquired a new expression domain in the palea. Stamen expression is variable. Most grasses have a single AGL6-like gene (orthologous to the rice [Oryza sativa] gene MADS6). However, rice and other species of Oryza have a second copy (orthologous to rice MADS17) that appears to be the result of an ancient duplication.
19749329	We describe a selective and sensitive single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) typing of genes from rice cultivars by using DNA photoligation. This SNP typing method facilitates qualitative determination of genes from indica and japonica rice, and showed a high degree of single nucleotide specificity.
19749978	In a 1997 seminal paper, W. Maddison proposed minimizing deep coalescences, or MDC, as an optimization criterion for inferring the species tree from a set of incongruent gene trees, assuming the incongruence is exclusively due to lineage sorting. In a subsequent paper, Maddison and Knowles provided and implemented a search heuristic for optimizing the MDC criterion, given a set of gene trees. However, the heuristic is not guaranteed to compute optimal solutions, and its hill-climbing search makes it slow in practice. In this paper, we provide two exact solutions to the problem of inferring the species tree from a set of gene trees under the MDC criterion. In other words, our solutions are guaranteed to find the tree that minimizes the total number of deep coalescences from a set of gene trees. One solution is based on a novel integer linear programming (ILP) formulation, and another is based on a simple dynamic programming (DP) approach. Powerful ILP solvers, such as CPLEX, make the first solution appealing, particularly for very large-scale instances of the problem, whereas the DP-based solution eliminates dependence on proprietary tools, and its simplicity makes it easy to integrate with other genomic events that may cause gene tree incongruence. Using the exact solutions, we analyze a data set of 106 loci from eight yeast species, a data set of 268 loci from eight Apicomplexan species, and several simulated data sets. We show that the MDC criterion provides very accurate estimates of the species tree topologies, and that our solutions are very fast, thus allowing for the accurate analysis of genome-scale data sets. Further, the efficiency of the solutions allow for quick exploration of sub-optimal solutions, which is important for a parsimony-based criterion such as MDC, as we show. We show that searching for the species tree in the compatibility graph of the clusters induced by the gene trees may be sufficient in practice, a finding that helps ameliorate the computational requirements of optimization solutions. Further, we study the statistical consistency and convergence rate of the MDC criterion, as well as its optimality in inferring the species tree. Finally, we show how our solutions can be used to identify potential horizontal gene transfer events that may have caused some of the incongruence in the data, thus augmenting Maddison's original framework. We have implemented our solutions in the PhyloNet software package, which is freely available at: http://bioinfo.cs.rice.edu/phylonet.
19750496	The whitebacked planthopper (WBPH), Sogatella furcifera (Horváth), is a major rice pest in many parts of Asia. Fipronil has been widely used to control rice pests, and resistance to fipronil has been reported in some important species. A field population (F) of WBPH was collected, with 50.5-fold resistance to fipronil, which increased to 137.5-fold (F-se) after continuous selection for 11 generations. The F-se population did not show significant cross-resistance to the insecticides examined by comparison with the F population. TPP (synergism ratio 1.9), DEM (1.5) and PBO (1.1) showed only slight synergism on fipronil in the F-se population. A large increase was found in esterase and P450 monooxygenase activity in the F-se population. In vitro, PBO inhibited both esterase and P450 monooxygenase activity, and TPP inhibited esterase activity in the F-se population. Synergistic study in vivo and biochemical study in vitro indicated that esterase and P450 monooxygenases might be important factors for fipronil resistance in the selected population F-se. However, these biochemical factors could not lead to such high resistance (137.5-fold) in the F-se population, and target-site insensitivity would be another or more important factor.
19750930	To determine the potent immunomodulating activities of different types of Japanese rice bran, we analyzed the effects of extracts of red, brown and black rice brans on the cell proliferation and cytokine production of mouse immunocompetent cells by cell culture experiments. Methanol extracts of these rice brans showed suppressive activities against the proliferative response (3H-thymidine incorporation) of mouse spleen cells induced by concanavalin A (Con A) or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in the cell culture experiments. Although the black and brown rice bran extracts showed suppressive effects on the production of interferon gamma (IFN gamma) or interleukin 6 (IL-6) in mouse spleen cells induced by Con A or LPS, the red rice bran extract exhibited stimulatory effects on the same cytokine-producing systems. Furthermore, when the effects of these extracts on the production of macropahage-derived inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) were assayed, the red rice bran extract caused a stimulatory effect on the IL-1alpha production from mouse macrophages induced by LPS, but did not show a significant effect on TNF-alpha production. However, the brown and black rice bran extracts exhibited significant inhibitory effects on the production of IL-1alpha and TNF-alpha in the same macrophage culture experiment. A possible mechanism of the immunomodulating activities of the rice bran extracts and the immunopharmacological significance of these findings are discussed.
19751706	ZFP245 is a cold- and drought-responsive gene that encodes a zinc finger protein in rice. The ZFP245 protein localizes in the nucleus and exhibits trans-activation activity. Transgenic rice plants overexpressing ZFP245 were generated and found to display high tolerance to cold and drought stresses. The transgenic plants did not exhibit growth retardation, but showed growth sensitivity against exogenous abscisic acid, increased free proline levels and elevated expression of rice pyrroline-5-carboxylatesynthetase and proline transporter genes under stress conditions. Overproduction of ZFP245 enhanced the activities of reactive oxygen species-scavenging enzymes under stress conditions and increased the tolerance of rice seedlings to oxidative stress. Our data suggest that ZFP245 may contribute to the tolerance of rice plants to cold and drought stresses by regulating proline levels and reactive oxygen species-scavenging activities, and therefore may be useful for developing transgenic crops with enhanced tolerance to abiotic stress.
19752888
19753699	Urolithiasis is a common cause of lower urinary tract disease in dogs. Diet influences urine composition, and dietary change is often incorporated into medical management of uroliths. The purpose of this study was to determine the influence of four diets on urine pH in healthy dogs. Sixteen adult dogs of various breeds, ages, and weights were fed four diets in Latin Square design: a diet formulated for adult dogs at maintenance (Diet A; ProPlan Canine Chicken and Rice Adult [dry], Ralston Purina Co, St. Louis, MO); a diet formulated to aid in management of fiber-responsive diseases (Diet B; CNM Canine DCO [dry], Ralston Purina Co, St. Louis, MO); a diet formulated to aid in management of chronic renal failure (Diet C; CNM Canine NF [dry], Ralston Purina Co, St. Louis, MO); and a diet designed to aid in prevention of struvite urolithiasis (Diet D; Prescription Diet Canine c/d [dry], Hill's Pet Nutrition Inc, Topeka, KS). Diets were fed for 21 days. On day 21, blood and urine samples were collected before feeding one-half of daily caloric requirements, and urine was collected 4 and 8 hours later. A biochemical analysis and ionized-calcium test were conducted on blood samples, and a complete urinalysis and urine pH determined by a pH-electrode were conducted on urine samples. Thirteen dogs completed the study. Serum phosphorous concentrations were significantly lower and urine pH was significantly higher when dogs consumed Diet C when compared with the other three diets. A postprandial effect on urine pH was not demonstrated when dogs consumed any diet. Other urinalysis parameters were not different between dogs or diets. Diet does influence urine pH in healthy dogs; however, healthy dogs produced urine with an acidic pH except while consuming a diet specifically formulated to produce alkaluria. Furthermore, crystalluria was commonly found in these healthy dogs regardless of the diet.
19754167	Monascus -fermented red mold rice extract (RMRE) offers valuable therapeutic benefits and has been extensively used for centuries in East Asia. Monascus secondary polyketide metabolites, including monacolin K (MK) and ankaflavin (AK), have been reported to have antitumor-initiating effects on cancer progression. This paper reports that the oral administration of RMRE dramatically inhibited the metastatic ability of murine Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) cells in syngeneic C57BL/6 mice caused by the decline of serum vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) levels compared with untreated metastatic groups. MK is a key antimetastatic and antiangiogenesis compound in RMRE, as shown by down-regulation of VEGF-stimulated invasive activity in LLC cells by Matrigel-coating transwell and tube-forming assays and reverse transcription-Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR). Therefore, application of RMRE may serve as a nontoxic natural chemopreventive or antineoplastic agent in the development of cancer adjuvant chemotherapy.
19754836	Proteins belonging to the newly identified Cerato-platanin (CP) family have been shown to have elicitor activity in inducing disease resistance responses in various plants. In this study, we characterized a gene, MgSM1, from Magnaporthe grisea, encoding a putative small protein belonging to the CP family. MgSM1 was constitutively expressed not only in different fungal growth stages but also during its infection process in rice plants. Agrobacterium-mediated transient expression of MgSM1 in Arabidopsis resulted in hypersensitive response in the infiltrated local leaves and enhanced disease resistance against Botrytis cinerea and Pseudomonas syringae pv. tomato (Pst) DC3000 in upper leaves of plants, accompanyed by up-regulated expression of defense genes (PR-1, PR-5 and PDF1.2). Transgenic Arabidopsis plants expressing MgSM1 under control of a dexamethasone (DEX)-inducible promoter were generated. Expression of MgSM1 in transgenic plants was induced by exogenous application of DEX. MgSM1-expressing plants showed normal growth with application of <10 microm DEX. After DEX induction, the MgSM1-expressing plants showed enhanced disease resistance against B. cinerea, Alternaria brassicicola and Psto DC3000 as well as up-regulated expression of some of defense genes. Moreover, accumulation of reactive oxygen species was observed in MgSM1-expressing plants. These results collectively suggest that ectopic expression of MgSM1 in transgenic plants confers broad-spectrum resistance against different types of pathogens. Our study also provides a novel strategy to generate environment-friendly crops with enhanced broad-spectrum resistance through ectopic expression of microbe-derived disease resistance-inducing proteins.
19754838	Generating a new variety of plant with erect-leaf is a critical strategy to improve rice grain yield, as plants with this trait can be dense-planted. The erect-leaf is a significant morphological trait partially regulated by Brassinosteroids (BRs) in rice plants. So far, only a few genes can be used for molecular breeding in rice. Here, we identified OsBAK1 as a potential gene to alter rice architecture. Based on rice genome sequences, four closely related homologs of Arabidopsis BAK1 (AtBAK1) gene were amplified. Phylogenetic analysis and suppression of a weak Arabidopsis mutant bri1-5 indicated that OsBAK1 (Os08g0174700) is the closest relative of AtBAK1. Genetic, physiological, and biochemical analyses all suggest that the function of OsBAK1 is conserved with AtBAK1. Overexpression of a truncated intracellular domain of OsBAK1, but not the extracellular domain of OsBAK1, resulted in a dwarfed phenotype, similar to the rice BR-insensitive mutant plants. The expression of OsBAK1 changed important agricultural traits of rice such as plant height, leaf erectness, grain morphologic features, and disease resistance responses. Our results suggested that a new rice variety with erect-leaf and normal reproduction can be generated simply by suppressing the expression level of OsBAK1. Therefore, OsBAK1 is a potential molecular breeding tool for improving rice grain yield by modifying rice architecture.
19755026	To explore the effects of hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) treatment on the migration and differentiation of endogenous neural stem cells (NSCs) in neonatal rats with hypoxic-ischemic brain damage (HIBD). Seven-day-old Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into the normal control (CON), the HIBD model and the HBO groups (HBO treatment was administered at 2 ATA, once daily for 7 days within 3 hrs after HIBD). HIBD model was prepared according to the classic Rice-Vannucci method. BrdU/DCX, BrdU/beta-tubulin, BrdU/GFAP and BrdU/O4 immunofluorescence were examined by confocal microscopy in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and the cortex 7, 14 and 28 days after HBO treatment. The BrdU(+)DCX(+) cells in the SVZ (84 +/- 21 cells/mm2) in the HBO group were significantly higher than those in the CON group (39 +/- 14 cells/mm2) (p<0.05) and the HIBD model group (68 +/- 17 cells/mm2) (p<0.05) 7 days after HBO treatment. Fourteen days after HBO treatment, the BrdU(+) DCX(+) cells decreased in the SVZ and more cells were observed in the cortex in the HBO group as compared with the CON group (p<0.01). The BrdU(+) beta-tubulin(+), BrdU(+)GFAP(+) and BrdU(+) O4(+) cells were observed in the cortex, and more BrdU(+)beta-tubulin(+) and BrdU(+) O4(+) cells were observed in the HBO group as compared with the CON and the HIBD model groups (p<0.05) 28 days after HBO treatment. HBO treatment may promote endogenous NSCs to migrate to the cortex and differentiate into mature neurocytes in neonatal rats with HIBD.
19756234	Somatic embryogenesis (SE) is the developmental restructuring of somatic cells towards the embryogenic pathway and forms the basis of cellular totipotency in angiosperms. With the availability of full-length cDNA sequences from Knowledge-based Oryza Molecular Biological Encylopedia (KOME), we identified the leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase (LRR-RLK) genes from rice (Oryza sativa), which also encompasses genes involved in regulating somatic embryogenesis. Eight out of eleven of the rice SERK and SERL (SERK-like) genes have the TIGR annotation as (putative) brassinosteroid insensitive 1-associated receptor kinase (precursor). Real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis was undertaken to quantify transcript levels of these 11 genes. Most of these genes were upregulated by brassinosteroids although only a few of these displayed auxin induction. The expression profile of these genes is nearly uniform in the zygotic embryogenic tissue, but the expression pattern is more complex in the somatic embryogenic tissue. It is likely that OsSERKs and OsSERLs may be involved in somatic embryogenesis and also perform a role in morphogenesis and various other plant developmental processes. Functional validation of these somatic embryogenesis receptor-like kinase genes may help in elucidating their precise functions in regulating various facets of plant development.
19756323	This study was aimed to verify the efficacy, in terms of healing, reepithelization and discomfort, of a detergent cream to be locally used after surgery for the most frequent pathologies of anal canal and perineal region. The study was carried out on a "presentation sample" of 40 patients, 30 with clinico-instrumental diagnosis of III-IV degree haemorrhoids, 10 with diagnosis of chronic anal fissures, provided by 5 Colonproctological Centers, who entered a clinical follow-up after colonproctological surgery for their respective pathologies. The tested detergent cream (Anonet liquid) is composed by natural substances, such as Aloe vera, Hamamelis, Calendule e Hippocastane, as the lenitive and antiinflammatory principles, and Elastine, as a stimulatory agent of dermal elastic fibers, plus zincus oxide that has a protective, reparative and lenitive action, rice's starch with an anti-inflammatory action, liver fish oil and potassium glicirizzinate with high lenitive and anti-inflammatory action. The product does not contain strong tensioactive substances as well as preservants. The patients were asked to apply the cream on the perianal and perineal region twice a day for at least 12 days after surgery. The study demonstrated that in 84% of tested patients the prescribed cream has favoured the prevention of infective complications by stimulating a normal reepithelization, and diminished the anal discomfort related to burning and pruritus. The cream did not cause irritative and allergic manifestations, skin damage as well as pharmacological toxicity. The post-surgical use of the tested detergent cream, composed by the above-cited active principles, is recommended for locally preventing the infections, promoting the reepithelization, minimizing the perineal discomfort in patients operated of haemorrhoids and anal fissures.
19756358	Rice stripe virus (RSV) is one of the most destructive pathogens of rice plants in East Asia. The RSV genome consists of four single-stranded RNA segments. We have determined and compared the complete nucleotide sequences of the RNA1 and RNA2 segments and the deduced amino acid sequence of each ORF of the 13 Korean RSV isolates and established their relationships with reported RSV sequences from China and Japan. Our results showed that the average percent nucleotide divergence based on the full-length genome is higher in RNA2 (2.2%) than in RNA1 (2.0%). The average percent amino acid variation of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), glycoprotein and NS2 genes encoded by viral complementary (vc) RNA1, viral RNA2 and vcRNA2, showed 2.8, 2.5 and 6.46%, respectively. On the other hand, the average percent nucleotide variation in the intergenic region (IGR) of RNA2 among the 13 Korean-RSV isolates was 3.5%. Phylogenetic analysis of the 13 Korean, 1 Japanese and 5 Chinese isolates based on their complete nucleotide sequences revealed two distinct types of RNA1 and three distinct types of RNA2. Most Chinese isolates grouped with one of the RNA1 types, but they were distributed among the three types when grouped by RNA2. Japanese isolate T was grouped with Korean isolates into one of the RNA1 and RNA2 genotypes. Taken together, our results suggest that the RSV population in Korea consists of mixtures of RNA1-RNA4 genome segments originating from distinctive ancestors, most likely due to either reassortment or recombination events among isolates.
19756471	Panicle architecture in rice can have a strong influence on yield. Using N-methyl-N-nitrosourea mutagenesis, we isolated an erect panicle mutant, Hep, from Hwasunchalbyeo, a glutinous japonica rice cultivar. Genetic analysis revealed that the erect panicle phenotype was controlled by a single recessive mutation designated erect panicle 3 (ep3). Genetic mapping revealed that the ep3 mutation was located on the short arm of chromosome 2 in a 0.1 cM region delimited by the STS markers STS5803-5 and STS5803-7. The ep3 locus corresponded to 46.8 kb region and contained six candidate genes. Comparison of the DNA sequences of the candidate genes from wild-type and erect panicle plants revealed a single base-pair change in the second exon of LOC_Os02g15950, which is predicted to result in a nonsense mutation. LOC_Os02g15950 encodes a putative F-box protein containing 515 amino acids and is expressed throughout the plant during all growth stages. A line carrying a T-DNA insertion in LOC_ Os02g15950 was obtained and shown to have the same phenotype as the ep3 mutant, thus confirming the identification of LOC_Os02g15950 as the ERECT PANICLE 3 (EP3) gene. The ep3 mutation causes a significant increase in the number of small vascular bundles as well as the thickness of parenchyma in the peduncle, which results in the erect panicle phenotype.
19756991	Honglian (HL) cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is one of the rice CMS types and has been widely used in hybrid rice production in China. The CMS line (Yuetai A, YTA) has a Yuetai B (maintainer line, YTB) nuclear genome, but has a rearranged mitochondrial (mt) genome consisting of Yuetai B. The fertility of hybrid (HL-6) was restored by restorer gene in nuclear genome of restorer line (9311). We used isotope-code affinity tag (ICAT) technology to perform the protein profiling of uninucleate stage rice anther and identify the CMS-HL related proteins. Two separate ICAT analyses were performed in this study: (1) anthers from YTA versus anthers from YTB, and (2) anthers from YTA versus anthers from HL-6. Based on the two analyses, a total of 97 unique proteins were identified and quantified in uninucleate stage rice anther under the error rate of less than 10%, of which eight proteins showed abundance changes of at least twofold between YTA and YTB. Triosephosphate isomerase, fructokinase II, DNA-binding protein GBP16 and ribosomal protein L3B were over-expressed in YTB, while oligopeptide transporter, floral organ regulator 1, kinase and S-adenosyl-L: -methionine synthetase were over-expressed in YTA. Reduction of the proteins associated with energy production and lesser ATP equivalents detected in CMS anther indicated that the low level of energy production played an important role in inducing CMS-HL.
19757105	During sexual propagation of primary trisomic 8, chromosome 8 breaks in some rice plants, resulting in a telotrisomic (2n+.8S) line. In this study, we observed that the extra short arm of chromosome 8 (.8S) can easily be lost in the telotrisomic, and we determined by fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) analysis that the centromeric region of the extra .8S did not contain the rice centromeric satellite repeat (CentO) and centromere-specific retrotransposon (CRR); however, the extra .8S contained part of the CentO and CRR sequences in the initially preserved telotrisomic line. We confirmed by real-time quantitative PCR (RQ-PCR) analysis that the original functional centromere of the extra .8S was lost. Using both FISH and RQ-PCR, the breakage point of the extra .8S was found within the BAC clone a0070J19 sequence containing the first part of the short arm near the centromere region of chromosome 8 but without any CentO or CRR sequences. However, part of the DNA sequence within the a0070J19 BAC clone played a role in the new functional centromere, contributing to the morphological variations by asexually propagated plants of rice telotrisomics in the field. We conclude that CENH3, a key element in the eukaryotic kinetochore, may not always bind properly with the new functional centromere, resulting in loss of the extra .8S during mitosis and the chromosome numbers returning to diploid levels in subsequent generations.
19758430	'Systems-wide' approaches such as microarray RNA-profiling are ideally suited to the study of the complex overlapping responses of plants to biotic and abiotic stresses. However, commercial microarrays are only available for a limited number of plant species and development costs are so substantial as to be prohibitive for most research groups. Here we evaluate the use of cross-hybridisation to Affymetrix oligonucleotide GeneChip(R) microarrays to profile the response of the banana (Musa spp.) leaf transcriptome to drought stress using a genomic DNA (gDNA)-based probe-selection strategy to improve the efficiency of detection of differentially expressed Musa transcripts. Following cross-hybridisation of Musa gDNA to the Rice GeneChip(R) Genome Array, ~33,700 gene-specific probe-sets had a sufficiently high degree of homology to be retained for transcriptomic analyses. In a proof-of-concept approach, pooled RNA representing a single biological replicate of control and drought stressed leaves of the Musa cultivar 'Cachaco' were hybridised to the Affymetrix Rice Genome Array. A total of 2,910 Musa gene homologues with a >2-fold difference in expression levels were subsequently identified. These drought-responsive transcripts included many functional classes associated with plant biotic and abiotic stress responses, as well as a range of regulatory genes known to be involved in coordinating abiotic stress responses. This latter group included members of the ERF, DREB, MYB, bZIP and bHLH transcription factor families. Fifty-two of these drought-sensitive Musa transcripts were homologous to genes underlying QTLs for drought and cold tolerance in rice, including in 2 instances QTLs associated with a single underlying gene. The list of drought-responsive transcripts also included genes identified in publicly-available comparative transcriptomics experiments. Our results demonstrate that despite the general paucity of nucleotide sequence data in Musa and only distant phylogenetic relations to rice, gDNA probe-based cross-hybridisation to the Rice GeneChip(R) is a highly promising strategy to study complex biological responses and illustrates the potential of such strategies for gene discovery in non-model species.
19759247	Sensory properties are greatly involved in the process of satiation. Regarding the nature of sensory signals, an important distinction can be made between sweet and savory taste. It is unclear, however, whether sweet and savory differ in their influence on satiation. Our objective was to investigate the difference between a sweet and savory taste on satiation, independent of palatability, texture, energy density, and macronutrient composition. A crossover design was used, consisting of 3 test conditions in which 2 tastes (sweet and savory) were compared. Sixty-four healthy, nonsmoking, unrestrained participants (18 males and 46 females), with a mean age of 22.3 +/- 2.4 y and a mean BMI of 21.6 +/- 1.7 kg/m(2), enrolled. Rice was used as a test meal served in either a sweet or savory version. The meals were similar in palatability, texture, energy density, and macronutrient composition. Ad libitum intake, eating rate, and changes in pleasantness and appetite during the meals were measured. Ad libitum intake did not differ between the 2 meals; participants ate a mean of 314 +/- 144 g of the sweet meal and 333 +/- 159 g of the savory meal. Eating rate (sweet, 38 +/- 14 g/min; savory, 37 +/- 14 g/min) and changes in pleasantness and appetite during the meals were similar. Homogeneous meals with a sweet or savory taste, similar in palatability, texture, energy density, and macronutrient composition, do not differ in their influence on satiation in normal weight young adults.
19759345	Starch synthesis and degradation require the participation of many enzymes, occur in both photosynthetic and nonphotosynthetic tissues, and are subject to environmental and developmental regulation. We examine the distribution of starch in vegetative tissues of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and the expression of genes encoding core enzymes for starch synthesis. Starch is accumulated in plastids of epidermal, mesophyll, vascular, and root cap cells but not in root proper cells. We also identify cells that can synthesize starch heterotrophically in albino mutants. Starch synthesis in leaves is regulated by developmental stage and light. Expression of gene promoter-beta-glucuronidase fusion constructs in transgenic seedlings shows that starch synthesis genes are transcriptionally active in cells with starch synthesis and are inactive in root proper cells except the plastidial phosphoglucose isomerase. In addition, ADG2 (for ADPG PYROPHOSPHORYLASE2) is not required for starch synthesis in root cap cells. Expression profile analysis reveals that starch metabolism genes can be clustered into two sets based on their tissue-specific expression patterns. Starch distribution and expression pattern of core starch synthesis genes are common in Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa), suggesting that the regulatory mechanism for starch metabolism genes may be conserved evolutionarily. We conclude that starch synthesis in Arabidopsis is achieved by spatial coexpression of core starch metabolism genes regulated by their promoter activities and is fine-tuned by cell-specific endogenous and environmental controls.
19760088	The aquatic bodies designated as mosquito larval habitats are diverse in size and species composition. The macroinvertebrate predators in these habitats are elements that influence the abundance of mosquito species, providing a basis for biological control. Assessment of species assemblage in these habitats will indicate the possible variations in the resource exploitation and trophic interactions and, therefore, can help to frame biological control strategies more appropriately. In the present study, the species composition is being investigated in five different mosquito larval habitats at a spatial scale. A random sample of 80 each of the habitats, grouped as either small or large, was analyzed in respect to the macroinvertebrate species assemblage. The species composition in the habitats was noted to be an increasing function of habitat size (species number = 1.653 + 0.819 habitat size) and, thus, the diversity. The relative abundance of the mosquito immatures varied with the habitat, and the number of useful predator taxa was higher in the larger habitats. In the smaller habitats-plastic and earthen structures and sewage drains, the relative and absolute number of mosquito immatures per sampling unit were significantly higher than the pond and rice field habitats. This was evident in the cluster analysis where the smaller habitats were more related than the larger habitats. The principal component analysis on the species diversity yielded four and six components, respectively, for the smaller and larger habitats for explaining the observed variance of species abundance. The species composition in the habitats was consistent with the earlier findings and support that the abundance of coexisting macroinvertebrate species regulates the relative load of mosquito immatures in the habitats. The findings of this study may be further tested to deduce the relative importance of the habitats in terms of the productivity of mosquito immatures at a temporal scale.
19760367	Low amylose content (AC) is a desirable trait for rice (Oryza sativa L.) cooking quality and is selected in soft rice breeding. To gain a better understanding of the molecular mechanism controlling AC formation, we screened 83 Yunnan rice landraces in China and identified a rice variety, Haopi, with low AC. Genetic analyses and transgenic experiments revealed that low AC in Haopi was controlled by a novel allele of the Wx locus, Wx(hp), encoding a granule-bound starch synthase (GBSSI). Sequence comparisons of Wx(hp) and Wx(b) alleles (from Nipponbare) showed several nucleotide changes in the upstream regulatory regions (including the promoter, 5'-untranslated region, and first intron 5' splicing junction site). Interestingly, these changes had no obvious effect on the expression level and splicing efficiency of Wx transcripts. In addition, an examination of the coding region revealed that the Wx(hp) allele carries an A-to-G change at nucleotide position +497 from the start codon, resulting in an Asp(165)/Gly(165) substitution. The amino acid substitution had no detectable effects on GBSSI activity in vitro; however, it notably reduced the binding of GBSSI to starch granules, resulting in a reduction of AC in rice seeds. Moreover, three other Yunnan landraces with low AC also carry a nucleotide substitution identical to Haopi at the +497 position of the Wx gene, suggesting common ancestry. Based on the single-nucleotide polymorphism, we have developed a new derived cleaved amplified polymorphic sequence marker for use in breeding practice to manipulate AC in rice endosperm.
19760523	Nucleotide sequence encoding the truncated insecticidal Cry1Ca1 protein from Bacillus thuringiensis was extensively modified based on the codon usage of rice genes. The overall G + C contents of the synthetic cry1Ca1 coding sequence were raised to 65% with an additional bias of enriching for G and C ending codons as preferred by monocots. The synthetic gene was introduced into the Chinese japonica variety, Xiushui 11, by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Transgenic rice plants harboring this gene were highly resistant to Chilo suppressalis and Spodoptera litura larvae as revealed by insect bioassays. High levels of Cry1Ca1 protein were obtained in the leaves of transgenic rice, which were effective in achieving 100% mortality of S. litura and C. suppressalis larvae. The levels of Cry1Ca1 expression in the leaves of these transgenic plants were up to 0.34% of the total soluble proteins. The larvae of C. suppressalis and S. litura could consume a maximum of 1.89 and 4.89 mm2 of transgenic leaf area whereas the consumption of nontransgenic leaves by these larvae was significantly higher; 58.33 and 61.22 mm2, respectively. Analysis of R1 transgenic plants indicated that the cry1Ca1 was inherited by the progeny plants and provided complete protection against C. suppressalis and S. litura larvae.
19761179	Bacillus cereus is a soil bacterium and has been isolated from cooked and uncooked rice, milk and dairy products, meat, spices, garlic, vegetables, cereals and infant formulae. To report on the enteropathogenicity of B. cereus isolated from Nigerian foods. Forty-five Bacillus cereus isolates classified as diarrhoeal and emetic strains were assayed for enterotoxin production. Thirty extractions were from diarrhoeal strains and 15 from emetic strains. Forty-five Bacillus cereus isolates classified as diarrhoeal and emetic strains were assayed for enterotoxin production. Of the 30 toxin extractions from B. cereus classified as diarrhoeal strains, 18 (60%) gave positive ileal-loop reactions, while 15 toxin extractions from emetic strains of B. cereus gave negative ileal-loop reactions. The work has demonstrated the distribution and toxigenicity of B. cereus in various Nigerian foods. An appreciable number of Nigerian food isolates are capable of causing diarrhoea. Forty percent of the enterotoxigenic isolate were mild to severe enterotixin producers, with 31% mild, 6.7% moderate and 2.2% severe.
19761231	The reaction between sulfur atoms in the first electronically excited state, S((1)D), and ethene (C(2)H(4)) has been investigated in a complementary fashion in (a) crossed-beam dynamic experiments with mass spectrometric detection and time-of-flight (TOF) analysis at two collision energies (37.0 and 45.0 kJ mol(-1)), (b) low temperature kinetics experiments ranging from 298 K down to 23 K, and (c) electronic structure calculations of stationary points and product energetics on the C(2)H(4)S singlet and triplet potential energy surfaces. The rate coefficients for total loss of S((1)D) are found to be very large (ca. 4 x 10(-10) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1)) down to very low temperatures indicating that the overall reaction is barrierless. From laboratory angular and TOF distributions at different product masses, three competing reaction channels leading to H + CH(2)CHS (thiovinoxy), H(2) + CH(2)CS (thioketene), and CH(3) + HCS (thioformyl) have been unambiguously identified and their dynamics characterized. Product branching ratios have also been estimated. Interpretation of the experimental results on the reaction kinetics and dynamics is assisted by high-level theoretical calculations on the C(2)H(4)S singlet potential energy surface. RRKM (Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus) estimates of the product branching ratios using the newly developed singlet potential energy surface have also been performed and compared with the experimental determinations.
19761621	The interaction between a transcription factor and DNA motif (cis-acting element) is an important regulatory step in gene regulation. Comprehensive genome-wide methods have been developed to characterize protein-DNA interactions. Recently, the universal protein binding microarray (PBM) was introduced to determine if a DNA motif interacts with proteins in a genome-wide manner. We facilitated the PBM technology using a DsRed fluorescent protein and a concatenated sequence of oligonucleotides. The PBM was designed in such a way that target probes were synthesized as quadruples of all possible 9-mer combinations, permitting unequivocal interpretation of the cis-acting elements. The complimentary DNA strands of the features were synthesized with a primer and DNA polymerase on microarray slides. Proteins were labeled via N-terminal fusion with DsRed fluorescent protein, which circumvents the need for a multi-step incubation. The PBM presented herein confirmed the well-known DNA binding sequences of Cbf1 and CBF1/DREB1B, and it was also applied to elucidate the unidentified cis-acting element of the OsNAC6 rice transcription factor. Our method demonstrated PBM can be conveniently performed by adopting: (1) quadruple 9-mers may increase protein-DNA binding interactions in the microarray, and (2) a one-step incubation shortens the wash and hybridization steps. This technology will facilitate greater understanding of genome-wide interactions between proteins and DNA.
19762135	There is increasing concern that agricultural intensification in China has greatly increased N(2)O emissions due to rapidly increased fertilizer use. By linking a spatial database of precipitation, synthetic fertilizer N input, cropping rotation and area via GIS, a precipitation-rectified emission factor of N(2)O for upland croplands and water regime-specific emission factors for irrigated rice paddies were adopted to estimate annual synthetic fertilizer N-induced direct N(2)O emissions (FIE-N(2)O) from Chinese croplands during 1980-2000. Annual FIE-N(2)O was estimated to be 115.7 Gg N(2)O-N year(-1) in the 1980s and 210.5 Gg N(2)O-N year(-1) in the 1990s, with an annual increasing rate of 9.14 Gg N(2)O-N year(-1) over the period 1980-2000. Upland croplands contributed most to the national total of FIE-N(2)O, accounting for 79% in 1980 and 92% in 2000. Approximately 65% of the FIE-N(2)O emitted in eastern and southern central China.
19762423	Although some genes that encode sensory or regulatory elements for photoperiodic flowering are conserved between the long-day (LD) plant Arabidopsis thaliana and the short-day (SD) plant rice, the gene networks that control rice flowering, and particularly flowering under LD conditions, are not well understood. We show here that RICE FLOWERING LOCUS T 1 (RFT1), the closest homolog to Heading date 3a (Hd3a), is a major floral activator under LD conditions. An RFT1:GFP fusion protein localized in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) under LD conditions, suggesting that RFT1 is a florigen gene in rice. Furthermore, mutants in OsMADS50, a rice ortholog of Arabidopsis SUPPRESOR OF OVEREXPRESSION OF CONSTANS 1 (SOC1) did not flower up to 300 days after sowing under LD conditions, indicating that OsMADS50, which acts upstream of RFT1, promotes flowering under LD conditions. We propose that both positive (OsMADS50 and Ehd1) and negative (Hd1, phyB and Ghd7) regulators of RFT1 form a gene network that regulates LD flowering in rice. Among these regulators, Ehd1, a rice-specific floral inducer, integrates multiple pathways to regulate RFT1, leading to flowering under appropriate photoperiod conditions. A rice ortholog of Arabidopsis APETALA1, OsMADS14, was expressed in the floral meristem in wild-type but not in RFT1 RNAi plants, suggesting that OsMADS14 is activated by RFT1 protein in the SAM after the transition to flowering. We have thus exposed a network of genes that regulate LD flowering in rice.
19763416	We isolated 10 endophytic fungi from the roots of drought stressed soybean cultivar Hwangkeumkong and bioassayed on waito-c rice and soybean seedlings, in order to identify plant growth-promoting fungi. The fungal isolate D-2-1 provided the best result for plant height and biomass promotion as compared to wild type Gibberella fujikuroi. The D-2-1 culture filtrate (CF) was analyzed for the presence of gibberellins (GAs) and it was observed that all physiologically active GAs, especially gibberellic acid, were present in higher amounts (GA1, 0.24 ng/ml; GA3, 8.99 ng/ml; GA4, 2.58 ng/ml and GA7, 1.39 ng/ml) in conjunction with physiologically inactive GA5, GA9, GA15, GA19, and GA24. The fungal isolate D-2-1 was identified as a new strain of Chrysosporium pseudomerdarium through phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequence. Plant growth promotion and GAs production capacity of genus Chrysosporium have been reported for the first time in this study.
19763843	Vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase (V-PPase) expression increases in a number of abiotic stresses and is thought to play a role in adaptation to abiotic stresses. This paper reports on the regulation of six V-PPase genes in rice (Oryza sativa L.) coleoptiles under anoxia, using flood tolerant and intolerant cultivars to test our hypothesis. Quantitative PCR analysis showed that one vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase (OVP3) was induced by anoxia, particularly in flood-tolerant rice. Regulation of OVP3 expression under anoxia was investigated by analysing putative OVP promoters. The putative OVP3 promoter contained more previously identified anoxia-inducible motifs than the putative promoters of the other five OVP genes. GUS activity in transgenic rice plants containing the OVP3 promoter region linked to the GUS reporter gene was induced only by anoxia. Salt and cold treatments had little effect on OVP3 promoter-driven GUS expression when compared to the anoxic treatment.
19764416	Nutrition education is a very important tool for the promotion of human health. Epidemiological studies showed a strong association between postprandial glycemia and the cardiovascular risk. White rice is the staple food in Japan, but it is a high glycemic index diet. In our study, postprandial glucose levels were suppressed when viscous meals and barley were used as the side dishes and staple food with average-sized portions, respectively. Thus, information on the association between the traditional Japanese diet and health is still quite limited at this point. In conclusion, further human studies on food function are required in order to provide the public with accurate information.
19765231	*Despite the importance of the barrier to oxygen losses of the roots of hygrophytes growing in wet environments devoid of oxygen, there are few data available on permeability coefficients for O(2) across outer root cell layers (P(OPR)) and how they may change in response to low O(2). *A gas perfusion technique was used to measure the P(OPR) of rice (Oryza sativa) plants grown in either aerated or deoxygenated solution. The contributions of the apoplast and of living cells to the overall P(OPR) were characterized either by blocking apoplastic pores with precipitates of brown Cu(2)[Fe(CN)(6)] or by killing cells with 0.1 N HCl. *Compared with that of plants from aerated hydroponics, the P(OPR) of plants grown in deoxygenated medium was smaller by an order of magnitude. Precipitates resulting from CuSO(4)/K(4)[Fe(CN)(6)] treatment only formed in plants grown in aerated solution, where they reduced the P(OPR) by 5-20%. Killing of root segments with HCl increased P(OPR) in plants grown in both conditions by 20-55%. *The results indicated that apoplastic barriers effectively restricted radial O(2) loss. The relative role of the respiratory O(2) consumption of root peripheral layers increased as P(OPR) decreased.
19765235	Cellulose synthase-like (CSL) proteins of glycosyltransferase family 2 (GT2) are believed to be involved in the biosynthesis of cell-wall polymers. The CSL D sub-family (CSLD) is common to all plants, but the functions of CSLDs remain to be elucidated. We report here an in-depth characterization of a narrow leaf and dwarf1 (nd1) rice mutant that shows significant reduction in plant growth due to retarded cell division. Map-based cloning revealed that ND1 encodes OsCSLD4, one of five members of the CSLD sub-family in rice. OsCSLD4 is mainly expressed in tissues undergoing rapid growth. Expression of OsCSLD4 fluorescently tagged at the C- or N-terminus in rice protoplast cells or Nicotiana benthamiana leaves showed that the protein is located in the endoplasmic reticulum or Golgi vesicles. Golgi localization was verified using phenotype-rescued transgenic plants expressing OsCSLD4-GUS under the control of its own promoter. Two phenotype-altered tissues, culms and root tips, were used to investigate the specific wall defects. Immunological studies and monosaccharide compositional and glycosyl linkage analyses explored several wall compositional effects caused by disruption of OsCSLD4, including alterations in the structure of arabinoxylan and the content of cellulose and homogalacturonan, which are distinct in the monocot grass species Oryza sativa (rice). The inconsistent alterations in the two tissues and the observable structural defects in primary walls indicate that OsCSLD4 plays important roles in cell-wall formation and plant growth.
19765796	Chromite Ore Processing Residue (COPR) is the byproduct of chromate production process, which contains a large amounts of Cr(VI). The present work developed a new technique to treat COPR, and the process involved mixing the COPR with rice straw followed by pyrolysis. It was found that the gaseous organic fraction generated during pyrolysis of straw was beneficial to Cr(VI) reduction. In the study, process variables, such as the amount of straw added to COPR, heating temperature and particle size, were systematically varied, and their influences on the Cr(VI) reduction in COPR were all investigated. After pyrolysis, Cr(VI) decreased greatly, from 3400 for untreated COPR to less than 30 mg kg(-1) for treated COPR at 600 degrees C.
19765893	A simple and effective method is presented for the separation and preconcentration of Th(IV), Ti(IV), Fe(III), Pb(II) and Cr(III) by solid phase extraction on 2-nitroso-1-naphthol impregnated MCI GEL CHP20P resin prior to their inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometric determinations. The influence of analytical parameters including pH of the aqueous solution, flow rates of sample and eluent solutions and sample volume on the quantitative recoveries of analyte ions was investigated. Matrix effects caused by the presence of alkali, earth alkali and some metal ions in the analyzed solutions were investigated. The presented solid phase extraction method was applied to BCR-144R Sewage Sludge (domestic origin), BCR-141R Calcareous Loam Soil, NIST 1568a Rice Flour and NIST 1577b Bovine Liver certified reference materials (CRMs) for the determination of analyte ions and the results were in good agreement with the certified values. The separation procedure presented was also applied to the various natural water samples collected from Turkey with satisfactory results.
19766013	A SiPf40 gene was identified from an immature seed cDNA library of foxtail millet (Setaria italica). This gene encodes for a 29.4 KDa protein containing eight potential transmembrane domains and a highly conserved ZIP signature motif typical of ZIPs (zinc or iron transporter proteins) family. Other SiPf40 potential homologous genes have also been identified in rice, maize, wheat and Arabidopsis by Southern analysis. Expression data showed that this gene is preferentially expressed in millet hypocotyl and bud; however, a minimal level of constitutive expression could be detected in other foxtail millet tissues. Overexpression of SiPf40 gene causes extra branches in tobacco and extra tillering in millet associated with vessel enlarging and xylary fibers increasing, whereas the tiller number decreases in SiPf40 gene silenced plants. Moreover, IAA content decreased significantly in shoot apex of the transgenic tobacco overexpressing SiPf40 gene. All together, these morphological alterations indicate that SiPf40 gene is essential for lateral shoots growth.
19766482	The main goal of this work was to evaluate the technical feasibility of using rice husk (RH) as wood substitute in the production of environmentally sound medium-density particleboards using adhesives from soybean protein concentrate (SPC). Chemical modification of rice husk with sodium hydroxide and sodium hydroxide followed by hydrogen peroxide (bleaching) were undertaken to evaluate the effect of such treatments on the composition and topology of rice husk and the performance of produced panels. Both treatments were efficient in partially eliminating hemicelluloses, lignin and silica from RH, as evidenced by thermo-gravimetric analysis (TGA). Scanning electron microscopy observations suggested that alkaline treatment resulted in a more damaged RH substrate than bleaching. The dependence of mechanical properties (modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity, and internal bond) and the physical properties (water absorption and thickness swelling) on chemical treatments performed on both, rice husk and SPC was studied. Bleached-rice husk particleboards bonded with alkaline-treated soybean protein concentrate displayed the best set of final properties. Particleboards with this formulation met the minimum requirements of internal bond, modulus of elasticity and modulus of rupture recommended by the US Standard ANSI/A208.1 specifications for M1, MS and M2-grade medium-density particleboards, but failed to achieve the thickness swelling value recommended for general use panels. This limitation of soybean protein concentrate-bonded rice husk particleboards was counterbalanced by the advantage of being formaldehyde-free which makes them a suitable alternative for indoor applications.
19766489	The aim of this work was to study the feasibility and operation performance of plasma torch pyrolysis of biomass wastes, taking rice straw as the target material. This novel method has several advantages including high heating rate, short heating time, no viscous tar and low residual char (7.45-13.78 wt.%) or lava. The productions of CO and H(2) are the major components (91.85-94.14 vol.%) in the gas products with relatively high reaction rates. The maximum concentrations of gaseous products occurring times are all below 1 min. Almost 90% of gaseous products were appeared in 4 min reaction time. The yield of H(2) increases with the increase of input power or temperature. With the increase of moisture (5-55 wt.%), the mass yields of H(2) and CO(2) also increase from the H(2)O decomposition. However, due to the CO(2) production, the accumulated volume fraction of syngas decreases with the increase of moisture.
19766588	Plant beta-D-mannosidases and a rice beta-D-glucosidase, Os3BGlu7, with weak beta-D-mannosidase activity, cluster together in phylogenetic analysis. To investigate the relationship between substrate specificity and amino acid sequence similarity in family GH1 glycoside hydrolases, Os3BGlu8 and Os7BGlu26, putative rice beta-D-glucosidases from this cluster, and a beta-D-mannosidase from barley (rHvBII), were expressed in Escherichia coli and characterized. Os3BGlu8, the amino acid sequence and molecular model of which are most similar to Os3BGlu7, hydrolysed 4-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (4NPGlc) faster than 4-nitrophenyl-beta-D-mannopyranoside (4NPMan), while Os7BGlu26, which is most similar to rHvBII by these criteria, hydrolysed 4NPMan faster than 4NPGlc. All the enzymes hydrolyzed cellooligosaccharides with increased hydrolytic rates as the degree of polymerization increased from 3-6, but only rHvBII hydrolyzed cellobiose with a higher k(cat)/K(m) value than cellotriose. This was primarily due to strong binding of glucosyl residues at the+2 subsite for the rice enzymes, and unfavorable interactions at this subsite with rHvBII.
19766689	The antioxidant capacity of a water-soluble enzymatic extract from rice bran (EERB) has been tested in two cell models: keratinocyte monolayers and human reconstructed epidermis. Cells were incubated in culture medium in presence of different amounts of EERB and were UVB irradiated. Cell population assessment (MTT assay) and MDA (malonaldehyde) production were evaluated. The EERB did not induce cytotoxic effect for concentrations inferior or equal to 100 microg/mL. Human keratinocyte monolayers were protected of irradiation preventing 33% the lipid peroxidation process at concentration of 10 microg/ml of EEBR. In reconstructed human epidermis, 100 microg/mL decreased lipid peroxidation process by 44% (p<0.01) with regards to irradiated negative control. This effect was comparable to that of vitamin E at 600 microg/mL. Our data indicate that EERB is potentially able to efficiently counteract UVB-induced response. The EERB, diluted at 10% with water has very good skin compatibility. This product showed a sun protection factor of 4.8+/-0.3. Thus we can propose EERB as a useful natural standardized extract in skin photoprotection with promising applications in the field of dermatology.
19766710	Controlled proteolytic activation of membrane-bound transcription factors (MTFs) is recently emerging as a versatile way of rapid transcriptional responses to environmental changes in plants. Here, we report genome-scale identification of putative MTFs in the Arabidopsis and rice genomes. The Arabidopsis and rice genomes have at least 85 and 45 MTFs, respectively, in virtually all major transcription factor families. Of particular interest is the NAC MTFs (designated NTLs): there are at least 18 NTLs in Arabidopsis and 5 NTL members (OsNTLs) in rice. While the full-size OsNTL forms are associated with the membranes, truncated forms lacking the transmembrane domains are detected exclusively in the nucleus. Furthermore, transcript levels of the OsNTL genes were elevated after treatments with abiotic stresses, supporting their roles in plant stress responses. We propose that membrane-mediated transcriptional control is a critical component of gene regulatory network that serves as an adaptive strategy under unfavorable growth conditions.
19767453	The well-characterized secretory glycoprotein, rice (Oryza sativa) alpha-amylase isoform I-1 (AmyI-1), was localized within the plastids and proved to be involved in the degradation of starch granules in the organelles of rice cells. In addition, a large portion of transiently expressed AmyI-1 fused to green fluorescent protein (AmyI-1-GFP) colocalized with a simultaneously expressed fluorescent plastid marker in onion (Allium cepa) epidermal cells. The plastid targeting of AmyI-1 was inhibited by both dominant-negative and constitutively active mutants of Arabidopsis thaliana ARF1 and Arabidopsis SAR1, which arrest endoplasmic reticulum-to-Golgi traffic. In cells expressing fluorescent trans-Golgi and plastid markers, these fluorescent markers frequently colocalized when coexpressed with AmyI-1. Three-dimensional time-lapse imaging and electron microscopy of high-pressure frozen/freeze-substituted cells demonstrated that contact of the Golgi-derived membrane vesicles with cargo and subsequent absorption into plastids occur within the cells. The transient expression of a series of C-terminal-truncated AmyI-1-GFP fusion proteins in the onion cell system showed that the region from Trp-301 to Gln-369 is necessary for plastid targeting of AmyI-1. Furthermore, the results obtained by site-directed mutations of Trp-302 and Gly-354, located on the surface and on opposite sides of the AmyI-1 protein, suggest that multiple surface regions are necessary for plastid targeting. Thus, Golgi-to-plastid traffic appears to be involved in the transport of glycoproteins to plastids and plastid targeting seems to be accomplished in a sorting signal-dependent manner.
19767468	Rice paddy soil has been shown to have strong denitrifying activity. However, the microbial populations responsible for nitrate respiration and denitrification have not been well characterized. In this study, we performed a clone library analysis of >1,000 clones of the nearly full-length 16S rRNA gene to characterize bacterial community structure in rice paddy soil. We also identified potential key players in nitrate respiration and denitrification by comparing the community structures of soils with strong denitrifying activity to those of soils without denitrifying activity. Clone library analysis showed that bacteria belonging to the phylum Firmicutes, including a unique Symbiobacterium clade, dominated the clones obtained in this study. Using the template match method, several operational taxonomic units (OTUs), most belonging to the orders Burkholderiales and Rhodocyclales, were identified as OTUs that were specifically enriched in the sample with strong denitrifying activity. Almost one-half of these OTUs were classified in the genus Herbaspirillum and appeared >10-fold more frequently in the soils with strong denitrifying activity than in the soils without denitrifying activity. Therefore, OTUs related to Herbaspirillum are potential key players in nitrate respiration and denitrification under the conditions used.
19768557	The FK506-binding proteins (FKBPs) are a class of peptidyl-prolyl cis/trans isomerase enzymes, some of which can also operate as molecular chaperones. FKBPs comprise a large ubiquitous family, found in virtually every part of the cell and involved in diverse processes from protein folding to stress response. Higher plant genomes typically encode about 20 FKBPs, half of these found in the chloroplast thylakoid lumen. Several FKBPs in plants are regulators of hormone signalling pathways, with important roles in seed germination, plant growth and stress response. Some FKBP isoforms exists as homologous duplicates operating in finely tuned mechanisms to cope with abiotic stress. In order to understand the roles of the plant FKBPs, especially in view of the warming environment, we have identified and analysed the gene families encoding these proteins in rice using computational approaches. The work has led to identification of all FKBPs from the rice genome, including novel high molecular weight forms. The rice FKBP family appears to have evolved by duplications of FKBP genes, which may be a strategy for increased stress tolerance.
19771527	During differential screening of inflorescence-specific cDNA libraries from Oryza sativa indica, an arabinogalactan protein (OSIAGP) cDNA (586 bp) expressing preferentially in the inflorescence has been isolated. It encodes an arabinogalactan protein of 59 amino acids (6.4 kDa) with a transmembrane domain and a secretory domain at the N terminus. The protein shows homology with AGP23 from Arabidopsis, and its homologue in japonica rice is located on chromosome 6. OSIAGP transcripts also accumulate in shoots and roots of rice seedling grown in the dark, but light represses expression of the gene. Analysis of a genomic clone of OSIAGP revealed that its promoter contains several pollen-specificity and light-regulatory elements. The promoter confers pollen-preferential activity on gus, starting from the release of microspores to anther dehiscence in transgenic tobacco, and is also active during pollen tube growth. Analysis of pollen preferential activity of the promoter in the transgenic rice system revealed that even the approximately 300 bp fragment has activity in pollen and the anther wall and further deletion down to approximately 100 bp completely abolishes this activity, which is consistent with in-silico analysis of the promoter. Arabinogalactan proteins have been shown to be involved in the cell elongation process. The homology of OSIAGP with AGP23 and the fact that seedling growth in the dark and pollen tube growth are events based on cell elongation strengthen the possibility of OSIAGP performing a similar function.
19772590	Autoregressive regression coefficients for Anopheles arabiensis aquatic habitat models are usually assessed using global error techniques and are reported as error covariance matrices. A global statistic, however, will summarize error estimates from multiple habitat locations. This makes it difficult to identify where there are clusters of An. arabiensis aquatic habitats of acceptable prediction. It is therefore useful to conduct some form of spatial error analysis to detect clusters of An. arabiensis aquatic habitats based on uncertainty residuals from individual sampled habitats. In this research, a method of error estimation for spatial simulation models was demonstrated using autocorrelation indices and eigenfunction spatial filters to distinguish among the effects of parameter uncertainty on a stochastic simulation of ecological sampled Anopheles aquatic habitat covariates. A test for diagnostic checking error residuals in an An. arabiensis aquatic habitat model may enable intervention efforts targeting productive habitats clusters, based on larval/pupal productivity, by using the asymptotic distribution of parameter estimates from a residual autocovariance matrix. The models considered in this research extends a normal regression analysis previously considered in the literature. Field and remote-sampled data were collected during July 2006 to December 2007 in Karima rice-village complex in Mwea, Kenya. SAS 9.1.4 was used to explore univariate statistics, correlations, distributions, and to generate global autocorrelation statistics from the ecological sampled datasets. A local autocorrelation index was also generated using spatial covariance parameters (i.e., Moran's Indices) in a SAS/GIS database. The Moran's statistic was decomposed into orthogonal and uncorrelated synthetic map pattern components using a Poisson model with a gamma-distributed mean (i.e. negative binomial regression). The eigenfunction values from the spatial configuration matrices were then used to define expectations for prior distributions using a Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) algorithm. A set of posterior means were defined in WinBUGS 1.4.3. After the model had converged, samples from the conditional distributions were used to summarize the posterior distribution of the parameters. Thereafter, a spatial residual trend analyses was used to evaluate variance uncertainty propagation in the model using an autocovariance error matrix. By specifying coefficient estimates in a Bayesian framework, the covariate number of tillers was found to be a significant predictor, positively associated with An. arabiensis aquatic habitats. The spatial filter models accounted for approximately 19% redundant locational information in the ecological sampled An. arabiensis aquatic habitat data. In the residual error estimation model there was significant positive autocorrelation (i.e., clustering of habitats in geographic space) based on log-transformed larval/pupal data and the sampled covariate depth of habitat. An autocorrelation error covariance matrix and a spatial filter analyses can prioritize mosquito control strategies by providing a computationally attractive and feasible description of variance uncertainty estimates for correctly identifying clusters of prolific An. arabiensis aquatic habitats based on larval/pupal productivity.
19772648	The WRKY transcription factor gene family has a very ancient origin and has undergone extensive duplications in the plant kingdom. Several studies have pointed out their involvement in a range of biological processes, revealing that a large number of WRKY genes are transcriptionally regulated under conditions of biotic and/or abiotic stress. To investigate the existence of WRKY co-regulatory networks in plants, a whole gene family WRKYs expression study was carried out in rice (Oryza sativa). This analysis was extended to Arabidopsis thaliana taking advantage of an extensive repository of gene expression data. The presented results suggested that 24 members of the rice WRKY gene family (22% of the total) were differentially-regulated in response to at least one of the stress conditions tested. We defined the existence of nine OsWRKY gene clusters comprising both phylogenetically related and unrelated genes that were significantly co-expressed, suggesting that specific sets of WRKY genes might act in co-regulatory networks. This hypothesis was tested by Pearson Correlation Coefficient analysis of the Arabidopsis WRKY gene family in a large set of Affymetrix microarray experiments. AtWRKYs were found to belong to two main co-regulatory networks (COR-A, COR-B) and two smaller ones (COR-C and COR-D), all including genes belonging to distinct phylogenetic groups. The COR-A network contained several AtWRKY genes known to be involved mostly in response to pathogens, whose physical and/or genetic interaction was experimentally proven. We also showed that specific co-regulatory networks were conserved between the two model species by identifying Arabidopsis orthologs of the co-expressed OsWRKY genes. In this work we identified sets of co-expressed WRKY genes in both rice and Arabidopsis that are functionally likely to cooperate in the same signal transduction pathways. We propose that, making use of data from co-regulatory networks, it is possible to highlight novel clusters of plant genes contributing to the same biological processes or signal transduction pathways. Our approach will contribute to unveil gene cooperation pathways not yet identified by classical genetic analyses. This information will open new routes contributing to the dissection of WRKY signal transduction pathways in plants.
19772667	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous small RNAs having large-scale regulatory effects on plant development and stress responses. Extensive studies of miRNAs have only been performed in a few model plants. Although miRNAs are proved to be involved in plant cold stress responses, little is known for winter-habit monocots. Brachypodium distachyon, with close evolutionary relationship to cool-season cereals, has recently emerged as a novel model plant. There are few reports of Brachypodium miRNAs. High-throughput sequencing and whole-genome-wide data mining led to the identification of 27 conserved miRNAs, as well as 129 predicted miRNAs in Brachypodium. For multiple-member conserved miRNA families, their sizes in Brachypodium were much smaller than those in rice and Populus. The genome organization of miR395 family in Brachypodium was quite different from that in rice. The expression of 3 conserved miRNAs and 25 predicted miRNAs showed significant changes in response to cold stress. Among these miRNAs, some were cold-induced and some were cold-suppressed, but all the conserved miRNAs were up-regulated under cold stress condition. Our results suggest that Brachypodium miRNAs are composed of a set of conserved miRNAs and a large proportion of non-conserved miRNAs with low expression levels. Both kinds of miRNAs were involved in cold stress response, but all the conserved miRNAs were up-regulated, implying an important role for cold-induced miRNAs. The different size and genome organization of miRNA families in Brachypodium and rice suggest that the frequency of duplication events or the selection pressure on duplicated miRNAs are different between these two closely related plant species.
19772680	Our preliminary clinical trial showed that consumption of cooked rice of a Japanese common cultivar Yukihikari improved atopic dermatitis associated with a suspected rice allergy, although the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. We hypothesised that the ameliorating effect of Yukihikari on atopic dermatitis is associated with the gut microbiota. BALB/c mice were fed a synthetic diet supplemented with uncooked and polished white rice powder prepared from one of four different cultivars: Yukihikari, rice A (common rice), rice B (brewery rice) and rice C (waxy rice). Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis of PCR-amplified 16S rRNA gene fragments showed that the composition of faecal microbiota was different between mice fed Yukihikari and those fed rice A. Analysis of the 16S rRNA clone library and species-specific real-time PCR showed that the abundance of Akkermansia muciniphila, a mucin degrader, tended to be lower in mice fed Yukihikari. The incidence of allergic diarrhoea induced by oral administration of ovalbumin in systemically immunised mice was lower in mice fed Yukihikari, albeit with no difference in serum antibodies specific to ovalbumin. In a separate experiment, serum antibody levels specific to orally administered ovalbumin were lower in mice fed Yukihikari. Additionally, the translocation of horseradish peroxidase in isolated segments of ileum and colon tended to be lower in mice fed Yukihikari, suggesting a reduction in gut permeability in mice fed Yukihikari. These data indicate that changes in the gut microbiota of mice fed Yukihikari could be advantageous in the prevention of food allergy.
19773117	A speciation procedure based on the coprecipitation of manganese(II) with zirconium(IV) hydroxide has been developed for the investigation of levels of manganese species. The determination of manganese levels was performed by flame atomic absorption spectrometry (FAAS). Total manganese was determined after the reduction of Mn(VII) to Mn(II) by ascorbic acid. The analytical parameters including pH, amount of zirconium(IV), sample volume, etc., were investigated for the quantitative recoveries of manganese(II). The effects of matrix ions were also examined. The recoveries for manganese(II) were in the range of 95-98%. Preconcentration factor was calculated as 50. The detection limit for the analyte ions based on 3 sigma (n=21) was 0.75 microg L(-1) for Mn(II). The relative standard deviation was found to be lower than 7%. The validation of the presented procedure was performed by analysis of certified reference material having different matrices, NIST SRM 1515 (Apple Leaves) and NIST SRM 1568a (Rice Flour). The procedure was successfully applied to natural waters and food samples.
19774467	The 16S rRNA sequence and biochemical characteristics revealed the isolated organism as Pseudomonas sp. SU-EBT. This strain showed 97 and 90% decolorization of a recalcitrant dye, Congo red (100 mg l(-1)) and textile industry effluent with 50% reduction in COD within 12 and 60 h, respectively. The optimum pH and temperature for the decolorization was 8.0 and 40 degrees C, respectively. Pseudomonas sp. SU-EBT was found to tolerate the dye concentration up to 1.0 g l(-1). Significant induction in the activity of intracellular laccase suggested its involvement in the decolorization of Congo red. The metabolites formed after decolorization of Congo red, such as p-dihydroxy biphenyl, 8-amino naphthol 3-sulfonic acid and 3-hydroperoxy 8-nitrosonaphthol were characterized using FTIR and GC-MS. Phytotoxicity study revealed nontoxic nature of the degradation metabolites to Sorghum bicolor, Vigna radiata, Lens culinaris and Oryza sativa plants as compared to Congo red and textile industry effluent. Pseudomonas sp. SU-EBT decolorized several individual textile dyes, dye mixtures and textile industry effluent, thus it is a useful strain for the development of effluent treatment methods in textile processing industries.
19775148	The objective of this work was to develop a rice flour based procedure for in vitro structure-function studies of wheat proteins. Rice flour has an advantage over wheat flour, because the signal/noise ratio should be higher after the incorporation of the wheat prolamins into the protein matrix of the dough. A reduction/oxidation procedure has been developed to incorporate glutenin subunits into the polymeric structure of rice dough protein. The results indicated that incorporation of bulk fractions of HMW and LMW glutenin subunits increased the mixing requirements of the dough, whereas simple addition resulted in weaker dough. The incorporation studies of individual HMW subunits (Bx6, Bx7, and By8) demonstrated that rice flour can be used to study and compare the functional properties of different glutenin subunits.
19776160	Plant architecture is determined by genetic and developmental programs as well as by environmental factors. Sessile plants have evolved a subtle adaptive mechanism that allows them to alter their growth and development during periods of stress. Phytohormones play a central role in this process; however, the molecules responsible for integrating growth- and stress-related signals are unknown. Here, we report a gain-of-function rice (Oryza sativa) mutant, tld1-D, characterized by (and named for) an increased number of tillers, enlarged leaf angles, and dwarfism. TLD1 is a rice GH3.13 gene that encodes indole-3-acetic acid (IAA)-amido synthetase, which is suppressed in aboveground tissues under normal conditions but which is dramatically induced by drought stress. The activation of TLD1 reduced the IAA maxima at the lamina joint, shoot base, and nodes, resulting in subsequent alterations in plant architecture and tissue patterning but enhancing drought tolerance. Accordingly, the decreased level of free IAA in tld1-D due to the conjugation of IAA with amino acids greatly facilitated the accumulation of late-embryogenesis abundant mRNA compared with the wild type. The direct regulation of such drought-inducible genes by changes in the concentration of IAA provides a model for changes in plant architecture via the process of drought adaptation, which occurs frequently in nature.
19776769	In anoxic rice field soil, ferric iron reduction is one of the most important terminal electron accepting processes, yet little is known about the identity of iron-reducing microorganisms. Here, we identified acetate-metabolizing bacteria by RNA-based stable isotope probing in the presence of iron(III) oxides as electron acceptors. After reduction of endogenous iron(III) for 21 days, isotope probing with (13)C-labeled acetate (2 mM) and added ferric iron oxides (ferrihydrite or goethite) was performed in rice field soil slurries for 48 and 72 h. Ferrihydrite reduction coincided with a strong suppression of methanogenesis (77%). Extracted RNA from each treatment was density resolved by isopycnic centrifugation, and analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, followed by cloning and sequencing of 16S rRNA of bacterial and archaeal populations. In heavy, isotopically labeled RNAs of the ferrihydrite treatment, predominant (13)C-assimilating populations were identified as Geobacter spp. (approximately 85% of all clones). In the goethite treatment, iron(II) formation was not detectable. However, Geobacter spp. (approximately 30%), the delta-proteobacterial Anaeromyxobacter spp. (approximately 30%), and novel beta-Proteobacteria were predominant in heavy rRNA fractions indicating that (13)C-acetate had been assimilated in the presence of goethite, whereas none were detected in the control heavy RNA. For the first time, active acetate-oxidizing iron(III)-reducing bacteria, including novel hitherto unrecognized populations, were identified as a functional guild in anoxic paddy soil.
19778345	To purify and characterize an antimicrobial compound produced by a biocontrol bacterium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa MML2212, and evaluate its activity against rice pathogens, Rhizoctonia solani and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain MML2212 isolated from the rice rhizosphere with wide-spectrum antimicrobial activity was cultured in Kings'B broth using a fermentor for 36 h. The extracellular metabolites were isolated from the fermented broth using ethyl acetate extraction and purified by two-step silica-gel column chromatography. Three fractions were separated, of which a major compound was obtained in pure state as yellow needles. It was crystallized after dissolving with chloroform followed by slow evaporation. It is odourless with a melting point of 220-222 degrees C. It was soluble in most of the organic solvents and poorly soluble in water. The molecular mass of purified compound was estimated as 223.3 by mass spectral analysis. Further, it was characterized by IR, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectral analyses. The crystal structure of the compound was elucidated for the first time by X-ray diffraction study and deposited in the Cambridge Crystallographic Data Centre (http://www.ccde.com.ac.uk) with the accession no. CCDC 617344. The crystal compound was undoubtedly identified as phenazine-1-carboxamide (PCN) with the empirical formula of C(13)H(9)N(3)O. As this is the first report on the crystal structure of PCN, it provides additional information to the structural chemistry. Furthermore, the present study reports the antimicrobial activity of purified PCN on major rice pathogens, R. solani and X. oryzae pv. oryzae. Therefore, the PCN can be developed as an ideal agrochemical candidate for the control of both sheath blight and bacterial leaf blight diseases of rice.
19778370	Surface ozone pollution may cause reductions in rice (Oryza sativa L.) yield. Ozone sensitivity in rice cultivars is often evaluated based on visible leaf injury at an early growth stage. However, it is not clear whether reduction in grain yield is related to visible injury. Therefore, visible damage and grain yield reduction were examined in Japanese and Asian rice cultivars exposed to ozone. In experiment 1, 3-week-old rice seedlings were exposed to ozone (min.: 20 nl.l(-1), max.:120 nl.l(-1)) for 12 h in open-top chambers (OTCs). Visible leaf injury was quantified according to a leaf bronzing score. In experiment 2, rice plants were exposed to ozone in OTCs throughout the cropping season until grain harvest. Daily mean ozone concentrations were maintained at 2, 23, 28, 42, and 57 nl.l(-1) with a regular diurnal pattern of exposure. After harvest, grain yield was determined. Based on visible injury to the uppermost fully expanded leaf, the indica cultivar 'Kasalath' was most tolerant, and the japonica cultivar 'Kirara 397' was most sensitive to ozone. However, grain yields for both 'Kasalath' and 'Kirara 397' were significantly decreased after ozone exposure. The indica cultivar 'Jothi' suffered severe injury after ozone exposure but had no reduction in grain yield. Therefore, ozone sensitivity of rice cultivars evaluated by visible injury did not coincide with that evaluated by the reductions in grain yield. These results suggest that mechanisms that induce acute leaf injury do not relate to chronic ozone toxicity that reduces yield.
19778402	There are generally four recognized classes of japonica rice cultivars grown in the lower region of the Yangtze River valley. The geographical distribution of the four classes is latitude-dependent. Variation for heading date (HD) among 29 japonica rice cultivars grown in the lower region of the Yangtze River valley and belonging to the four classes was characterized, and their sensitivity to variations in photoperiod and temperature was analyzed. All of the cultivars were sensitive to both photoperiod and temperature. A regression analysis showed that HD is closely correlated with photoperiod sensitivity (PS). The PS of the four classes increased gradually from the medium maturing middle (MMM) types, through the late maturing middle (LMM) and early maturing late (EML) types to the medium maturing late (MML) types. Crosses with tester lines established that almost all of the cultivars carry the dominant early-heading allele at Ef-1, the photoperiod insensitive allele e(2) and the PS alleles E(1) or E(1) (t). Most of the MMM, LMM and MML types carry the insensitive allele e(3), while EML types have either E(3) or E(3) (t). At Se-1, MMM and LMM types have Se-1(e), some EML types have Se-1(e) and others Se-1(n), while the MML types are mostly Se-1(n). The PS of some MMM, LMM and EML types is reduced by the presence of hd2. These results show that the distribution of the four rice cultivar classes from high latitude to low latitude regions depended on a gradual increase in PS, which is mainly determined by its HD genotypes.
19778404	A comparative study of just cadmium (Cd) or heat and their combination treatments on some physiological parameters and the antioxidant systems in transgenic rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Zhonghua No.11) carrying glutathione-S-transferase (GST, EC. 2.5.1.18) and catalase1 (CAT1, EC. 1.11.1.6) and non-transgenics was conducted. The results revealed improved resistance in the transgenics to Cd and the combined Cd and heat stress than non-transgenics. Data showed that the activities of CAT, GST, superoxide dismutase (EC.1.15.1.1) and all components of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle measured in the stressed transgenics shoots are significantly different from those of non-transgenics. Results indicated that co-expression of GST and CAT1 had an important effect on the antioxidant system, in particular, the whole ascorbate-glutathione cycle. The less oxidative damage induced by Cd and the stress combination in the transgenics resulted not only from the GST and CAT1 transgene but also from the coordination of the whole ascorbate-glutathione cycle.
19778868	The aim of this study was to characterise the molecular mechanisms of transcriptional regulation of Differentially Expressed Genes (DEGs) in rice coleoptiles under anoxia by identifying motifs that are common in the promoter region of co-regulated genes. Un-changed DEGs (<2 fold and >-2), up-regulated DEGs (>or=2 fold) and down-regulated DEGs (<or=-2 fold) were separated in three different data sets. Their gene promoters were extracted from eukaryotic promoter database. Statistically significant consensus promoter motifs were detected by in silico method. A significant variation in the number of promoter motifs, consensus promoter motif and their sequences between UR-DEGs and DR-DEGs were detected that might be responsible for their related expression.
1977912	A survey of ground water-breeding mosquitoes was done during 1986-1987 in an area undergoing irrigation development in the Mahaweli Project of Sri Lanka. Forty-nine species were collected during the 12-mo phase of humans settlement and infrastructure construction, and 42 species during the succeeding 12-mo period under irrigated rice culture. Development resulted in the elimination of some preexisting breeding habitats, the modification of others, and the creation of new habits. The overall change from uninhabited forest to settled irrigated rice sharply increased the prevalence of Anopheles annularis van der Wulp, An. peditaeniatus (Leicester), Aedeomyia catasticta Knab, Mimomyia hybrida (Leicester), Mansonia uniformis (Theobald), and Culex tritaeniorhynchus Giles. Equally sharp decreases occurred in the prevalence of An. barbirostris van der Wulp, An. barbumbrosus Strickland & Choudhury, Ae, jamesi (Edwards), Ae. vittatus (Bigot), Ae. pseudomediofasciatus (Theobald), Cx. halifaxii Theobald, Cx. malayi (Leicester), Cx. minutissimus (Theobald), Cx. nigropunctatus Edwards, Cx. fuscocephala Theobald, and Cx. mimulus Edwards. Other species that showed smaller positive or negative changes included An. nigerrimus Giles, An. culicifacies Giles, An. jamesii Theobald, An. subpictus Grassi, An. vagus Donitz, An. varuna Iyengar, Mi. chamberlaini (Ludlow), Ma. annulifera (Theobald), Cx. bitaeniorhynchus Giles, Cx. gelidus Theobald, and Cx. pseudovishnui Colless. Irrigation development led to reduced breeding by the majority of species; however, most species that did increase in prevalence were potential vectors of human disease. Components of the irrigation system such as reservoir and canal margins, seepages, and rice fields provided increased breeding sites for some of these species.
1977980	To test the hypothesis that subclinical enteric infection (such as bacterial overgrowth), rice malabsorption, and growth faltering are causally linked, a field trial of low-dose, short-term, intermittent antibiotic treatment was carried out in 142 hydrogen-producing (by lactulose breath hydrogen test) Burmese village children aged 6-59 months. The children were randomly allocated treatment with metronidazole (20 mg/kg or 5 mg/kg daily), amoxycillin (25 mg/kg daily), or placebo given 1 week per month for 6 months. A cooked rice meal breath hydrogen test was done to classify the children as rice absorbers (RA) or rice malabsorbers (RM) before treatment and monthly on the day before each cycle of treatment. There were no differences between the treatment groups, so they were considered together. Factorial analysis showed that antibiotic treatment did not significantly affect the proportion of RM children. The only significant difference between antibiotic-treated and placebo-treated children's growth was in the subgroup of RM children aged 36-47 months; the antibiotic-treated children had significantly greater linear growth. In other age groups antibiotic treatment had no effect on growth.
19779865	This study reports differential expression of endoglucanase (EG) and beta-glucosidase (betaG) isoforms of Aspergillus terreus. Expression of multiple isoforms was observed, in presence of different carbon sources and culture conditions, by activity staining of poly acrylamide gel electrophoresis gels. Maximal expression of four EG isoforms was observed in presence of rice straw (28 U/g DW substrate) and corn cobs (1.147 U/ml) under solid substrate and shake flask culture, respectively. Furthermore, the sequential induction of EG isoforms was found to be associated with the presence of distinct metabolites (monosaccharides/oligosaccharides) i.e., xylose (X), G(1), G(3) and G(4) as well as putative positional isomers (G(1)/G(2), G(2)/G(3)) in the culture extracts sampled at different time intervals, indicating specific role of these metabolites in the sequential expression of multiple EGs. Addition of fructose and cellobiose to corn cobs containing medium during shake flask culture resulted in up-regulation of EG activity, whereas addition of mannitol, ethanol and glycerol selectively repressed the expression of three EG isoforms (Ia, Ic and Id). The observed regulation profile of betaG isoforms was distinct when compared to EG isoforms, and addition of glucose, fructose, sucrose, cellobiose, mannitol and glycerol resulted in down-regulation of one or more of the four betaG isoforms.
19781006	Biotechnologists seeking to limit gene expression to nonseed tissues of genetically engineered cereal crops have only a few choices of well characterized organ-specific promoters. We have isolated and characterized the promoter of the rice Leaf Panicle 2 gene (LP2, Os02g40240). The LP2 gene encodes a leucine-rich repeat-receptor kinase-like protein that is strongly expressed in leaves and other photosynthetic tissues. Transgenic rice plants containing an LP2 promoter-GUS::GFP bifunctional reporter gene displayed an organ-specific pattern of expression. This expression corresponded to transcript levels observed on RNA blots of various rice organs and microarray gene expression data. The strongest beta-glucuronidase activity was observed in histochemically stained mesophyll cells, but other green tissues and leaf cell types including epidermal cells also exhibited expression. Low or undetectable levels of LP2 transcript and LP2-mediated reporter gene expression were observed in roots, mature seeds, and reproductive tissues. The LP2 promoter is highly responsive to light and only weak expression was detected in etiolated rice seedlings. The specificity and strength of the LP2 promoter suggests that this promoter will be a useful control element for green tissue-specific expression in rice and potentially other plants. Organ-specific promoters like LP2 will enable precise, localized expression of transgenes in biotechnology-derived crops and limit the potential of unintended impacts on plant physiology and the environment.
19781010	ABSTRACT We present the first characterization of K(+) optimization of N uptake and metabolism in an NH(4)(+)-tolerant species, tropical lowland rice (cv. IR-72). (13)N radiotracing showed that increased K(+) supply reduces futile NH(4)(+) cycling at the plasma membrane, diminishing the excessive rates of both unidirectional influx and efflux. Pharmacological testing showed that low-affinity NH(4)(+) influx may be mediated by both K(+) and non-selective cation channels. Suppression of NH(4)(+) influx by K(+) occurred within minutes of increasing K(+) supply. Increased K(+) reduced free [NH(4)(+)] in roots and shoots by 50-75%. Plant biomass was maximized on 10 mm NH(4)(+) and 5 mm K(+), with growth 160% higher than 10 mm NO(3)(-)-grown plants, and 220% higher than plants grown at 10 mm NH(4)(+) and 0.1 mm K(+). Unlike in NH(4)(+)-sensitive barley, growth optimization was not attributed to a reduced energy cost of futile NH(4)(+) cycling at the plasma membrane. Activities of the key enzymes glutamine synthetase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) were strongly stimulated by elevated K(+), mirroring plant growth and protein content. Improved plant performance through optimization of K(+) and NH(4)(+) is likely to be of substantial agronomic significance in the world's foremost crop species.
19781097	Quantitative multi-elemental analysis by inductively coupled plasma (ICP) spectrometry depends on a complete digestion of solid samples. However, fast and thorough sample digestion is a challenging analytical task which constitutes a bottleneck in modern multi-elemental analysis. Additional obstacles may be that sample quantities are limited and elemental concentrations low. In such cases, digestion in small volumes with minimum dilution and contamination is required in order to obtain high accuracy data. We have developed a micro-scaled microwave digestion procedure and optimized it for accurate elemental profiling of plant materials (1-20 mg dry weight). A commercially available 64-position rotor with 5 ml disposable glass vials, originally designed for microwave-based parallel organic synthesis, was used as a platform for the digestion. The novel micro-scaled method was successfully validated by the use of various certified reference materials (CRM) with matrices rich in starch, lipid or protein. When the micro-scaled digestion procedure was applied on single rice grains or small batches of Arabidopsis seeds (1 mg, corresponding to approximately 50 seeds), the obtained elemental profiles closely matched those obtained by conventional analysis using digestion in large volume vessels. Accumulated elemental contents derived from separate analyses of rice grain fractions (aleurone, embryo and endosperm) closely matched the total content obtained by analysis of the whole rice grain. A high-throughput micro-scaled method has been developed which enables digestion of small quantities of plant samples for subsequent elemental profiling by ICP-spectrometry. The method constitutes a valuable tool for screening of mutants and transformants. In addition, the method facilitates studies of the distribution of essential trace elements between and within plant organs which is relevant for, e.g., breeding programmes aiming at improvement of the micronutrient density in edible plant parts. Compared to existing vial-in-vial systems, the new method developed here represents a significant methodological advancement in terms of higher capacity, reduced labour consumption, lower material costs, less contamination and, as a consequence, improved analytical accuracy following micro-scaled digestion of plant samples.
19781829	Human activities have resulted in cadmium (Cd) and sulfur (S) accumulation in paddy soils in parts of southern China. A combined soil-sand pot experiment was conducted to investigate the influence of excessive S supply on iron plaque formation and Cd accumulation in rice plants, using two Cd levels (0, 1.5 mg kg(-1)) combined with three S concentrations (0, 60, 120 mg kg(-1)). The results showed that excessive S supply significantly decreased Cd accumulation in brown rice due to the decrease of Cd availability and the increase of glutathione in rice leaves. But excessive S supply obviously increased Cd accumulation in roots due to the decrease of iron plaque formation on the root surface of rice. Therefore, excessive S supply may result in loss of rice yield, but it could effectively reduce Cd accumulation in brown rice exposed to Cd contaminated soils.
19781930	The composting process of different organic wastes both in laboratory and on a large-scale was characterized using CIELAB color variables to evaluate compost stability for the better application in agriculture. The time courses of the CIELAB variables of composting materials were determined directly from the bottom of a glass petri dish filled with dried and ground samples using a Minolta Color Reader (CR-13) calibrated with clean empty petri dishes placed on a white tile. To compare the proposed method with conventional methods, the same materials were also evaluated using commonly used compost stability evaluation indices. Most of the CIELAB variables of a compost made from a mixture of green tea waste and rice bran reached a plateau after 84 days of composting and showed strong relationships with the commonly used compost stability evaluation indices. The time needed for CIELAB variables, especially the L*and b* values, to stabilize at large-scale composting plants of cattle litter, farmyard manure, kitchen garbage and bark compost, were more or less similar to the times of maturation evaluated by the respective compost producers. The CIELAB color variable offers a new, simple, rapid and inexpensive means of evaluating compost stability and its quality prior to agricultural use.
19782171	Little is known about rice consumption, related food intake patterns, and the nutritional contribution that rice provides in the diets of Americans. To provide information about rice consumption in the United States and the diets of rice consumers. Data come from the Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals (1994-1996) and the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (2001-2002). Respondents report 24-hour recall dietary intakes. The amount of rice available in foods is estimated using the Food Commodity Intake Database. Consumers are classified based on the amount of rice they consume in foods. The analysis includes information from adult individuals: 9,318 from the Continuing Survey of Food Intakes by Individuals and 4,744 from National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. Weighted percentages and mean values show the food and nutrient intake amounts. Logistic regression analysis is used to examine relationships among economic, social, and demographic factors that affect rice consumption. Rice is consumed by a significant portion of the US adult population. Compared with others who did not consume rice, rice consumers consumed a smaller share of energy per day from fat and saturated fat; more iron and potassium; and more dietary fiber, meat, vegetables, and grains. Race/ethnicity and education are determinants of the probability of consuming rice, and more so than low-income status. Rice consumers choose a diet that includes more vegetables, a smaller share of energy from fat and saturated fat, more dietary fiber and more iron than those who do not consume rice; the differences have remained relatively stable over the last decade. Accounting for race/ethnicity and income levels is important for better understanding of factors that affect food choices and for effective design of dietary interventions.
19782173	Rice is a commonly consumed food staple for many Asian and Pacific cultures thus, nutrient enrichment of rice has the potential to increase nutrient intakes for these populations. The objective of this study was to determine the levels of enrichment nutrients (ie, thiamin, niacin, iron, and folic acid) in white rice found in Guam, Saipan (Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), and Oahu (Hawaii). The proportion of white rice that was labeled "enriched" varied by type, bag size, and location. Most long-grain rice was labeled as enriched and most medium-grain rice was not. Bags of either type weighing >10 lb were seldom labeled as enriched in Hawaii or Saipan. Samples of various types of rice were collected on these three islands (n=19; 12 of which were labeled as enriched) and analyzed for their content of enrichment nutrients. Rice that was labeled as enriched in Hawaii and Guam seldom met the minimum enrichment standards for the United States. For comparison, three samples of enriched rice from California were also analyzed, and all met the enrichment standards. Food and nutrition professionals who are planning or evaluating diets of these Pacific island populations cannot assume that rice is enriched.
19784803	Oxadiargyl is a commonly used herbicide in China. We developed a simple, fast, and high-throughput method employing gas chromatography with electron capture detector to determine oxadiargyl residues in food samples (rice, straws) and environmental samples (soil, water). Samples were prepared by a modified QuEChERS procedure. In this method, acetonitrile was used as the extracting solvent. The purifying step was omitted when the chromatographic conditions were optimized. Recoveries ranged from 82.9 to 112.0% for oxadiargyl in all samples, with relative standard deviation values lower than 6.2% at 0.01 mg/kg fortified concentration level.
19784861	Thanatin is an antimicrobial peptide with a strong and wide-ranging antimicrobial spectrum, including certain species of fungi and Gram-negative and Gram-positive bacteria. To evaluate the application of thanatin to the generation of disease-resistant plants, we introduced a synthetic thanatin gene into rice. Several transformants that expressed the introduced gene showed significant level of antimicrobial activity. The substances showing antimicrobial activity were partially purified from these transformants and their properties were determined. The molecule with characteristics similar to those of native thanatin on the elution pattern in HPLC analysis had an identical molecular mass to that of native molecule. It should also be noted that the transformant acquired a sufficient level of resistance to the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, presumably due to the repressive activity of thanatin to its initial stage of infection. This result demonstrates that thanatin has antifungal activity for M. oryzae and that the introduction of the thanatin gene into rice is effective in generating a plant resistant to rice blast disease.
19785077
19786378	The purpose of this randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, parallel comparison study was to evaluate the lipid-lowering effect of orally administrated nattokinase and nattokinase combined with red yeast rice (RYR) extract on blood lipids in patients with hyperlipidemia. A total of 47 patients with hyperlipidemia were assigned to one of three groups: 1. nattokinase-mono formula (50 mg/capsule), 2. combined formula of nattokinase with RYR (300 mg of extract/capsule) and 3. placebo. Subjects received a twice daily dose of two capsules for six months. The mono formula showed no effects on blood lipids until month six, while the combined formula ameliorated all of measured lipids starting from month one. In the combined group significant decreases were found with regard to: triglycerides (TG) by 15%, total cholesterol (TC) by 25%, low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) by 41%, TC/high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) ratio by 29.5%, and increases in HDL-C by 7.5%. These changes were sustained until the end of study. After controlling for baseline levels, only the combined group, but not mono group, showed a significant difference (p<0.0001) in TC, LDL-C and TC/HDL-C ratio when compared with the placebo group. In summary, this study provides long-term efficacy of nattokinase supplementation and shows that the combined formula has relatively more potent effects than the mono formula on lowering of blood lipids, suggesting that combined nattokinase with RYR will be a better neutraceutical for patients with hyperlipidemia than nattokinase alone.
19788421	DNA methylation affects important developmental processes in both plants and animals. The process of methylation of cytosines at C-5 is catalysed by DNA methyltransferases (MTases), which are highly conserved, both structurally and functionally, in eukaryotes. In this study, we identified and characterized cytosine DNA MTase genes that are activated with the onset of reproductive development in rice. The rice genome (Oryza sativa L. subsp. japonica) encodes a total of 10 genes that contain the highly conserved MTase catalytic domain. These genes have been categorized into subfamilies on the basis of phylogenetic relationships. A microarray-based gene expression profile of all 10 MTases during 22 stages/tissues that included 14 stages of reproductive development and five vegetative tissues together with three stresses, cold, salt and dehydration stress, revealed specific windows of MTase activity during panicle and seed development. The expression of six methylases was specifically/preferentially upregulated with the initiation of floral organs. Significantly, one of the MTases was also activated in young seedlings in response to cold and salt stress. The molecular studies presented here suggest a greater role for these proteins and the epigenetic process in affecting genome activity during reproductive development and stress than was previously anticipated.
19789376	In flowering plants, the accumulation of small deletions through unequal homologous recombination (UR) and illegitimate recombination (IR) is proposed to be the major process counteracting genome expansion, which is caused primarily by the periodic amplification of long terminal repeat retrotransposons (LTR-RTs). However, the full suite of evolutionary forces that govern the gain or loss of transposable elements (TEs) and their distribution within a genome remains unclear. Here, we investigated the distribution and structural variation of LTR-RTs in relation to the rates of local genetic recombination (GR) and gene densities in the rice (Oryza sativa) genome. Our data revealed a positive correlation between GR rates and gene densities and negative correlations between LTR-RT densities and both GR and gene densities. The data also indicate a tendency for LTR-RT elements and fragments to be shorter in regions with higher GR rates; the size reduction of LTR-RTs appears to be achieved primarily through solo LTR formation by UR. Comparison of indica and japonica rice revealed patterns and frequencies of LTR-RT gain and loss within different evolutionary timeframes. Different LTR-RT families exhibited variable distribution patterns and structural changes, but overall LTR-RT compositions and genes were organized according to the GR gradients of the genome. Further investigation of non-LTR-RTs and DNA transposons revealed a negative correlation between gene densities and the abundance of DNA transposons and a weak correlation between GR rates and the abundance of long interspersed nuclear elements (LINEs)/short interspersed nuclear elements (SINEs). Together, these observations suggest that GR and gene density play important roles in shaping the dynamic structure of the rice genome.
19790021	A suggestion for a graduated diagnostic and therapeutic approach for patients with a suspected infection with non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) of the hand and wrist is made. Between March 2003 and February 2007, 2 women and 3 men with an average age of 64 years were treated for an NTM infection of the hand and wrist. 4 patients had a tenosynovitis of the wrist. In 1 patient both wrists were involved. 1 patient had a granuloma of the index finger. The patients' charts, the operation reports, histological and bacteriological findings and the antibiogram were evaluated. An inoculating trauma was identified in four patients. Intraoperatively rice bodies were present in the 4 patients with a tenosynovitis of the wrist. Histological findings showed acid-fast bacilli in 2 patients and chronic inflammatory reaction with/without granuloma (3/2) in 5 patients. Species identification was based on PCR and microbiological culture and revealed in three patients slow growing species (M. malmoense, M. nonchromogenicum, M. szulgai) and in two patients M. marinum (intermediate growth rate). Therapy consisted of immediate postoperative empirical combined drug treatment followed by antibiogram-based therapy. All patients showed healing of the infection at the final follow-up at an average of 25.2 months (range: 15-44 months) postoperatively. Consideration of non-tuberculous mycobacteria in the differential diagnosis in cases of localised tenosynovitis is paramount for diagnosis. Treatment based on graduated diagnostic steps, surgery and drugs (empirical followed by directed drugs) can achieve favourable clinical outcomes.
1979143	To determine whether regeneration of rice plants from protoplast culture induces DNA polymorphisms, progeny plants from direct regenerants of such cultures were examined for restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLP analysis). Significantly increased levels of DNA polymorphism were found compared with those in non-tissue culture control plants. Analysis with gene sequences representative of different functional domains, revealed that such polymorphisms are apparently widespread and not associated with any particular region. Analysis by comparative digestion with both methylation-sensitive and insensitive restriction enzymes revealed that methylation changes cannot be regarded as a major factor in the induction of these DNA polymorphisms.
19791605	In this study, we assessed the interaction occurring between the rice weevil and two storage molds (Aspergillus candidus Link and Aspergillus niger Van Tiegem) that prefer different moisture regimens under rice storage conditions. Rice weevil induced rapid population growth in both of the storage molds. The colony forming units (CFUs) of A. candidus and A. niger peaked at 10(9.00 +/- 0.02) and 10(7.72 +/- 0.03)/g, respectively. All of the rice grains were infested with the molds and eventually deteriorated; in the jars infested with A. candidus, no living weevils were found after 135 d. Suppression of the rice weevil by its larval parasitoid, Anisopteromalus calandrae (Howard), significantly retarded the growth of A. candidus but completely halted the growth of A. niger, which was replaced by xerophyllic molds including Aspergillus penicilloides Spegazzini and Wallemia sebi (Fries). Regression analyses showed that the total number of weevils was a significant factor explaining grain moisture content, which was in turn a significant factor in the growth of both mold species. The growth of A. niger was dependent on the grain moisture content (r2 = 0.52), thereby suggesting that the growth of A. niger was caused primarily by activity of the rice weevil and the resulting increased grain moisture content. However, 27% of the growth of A. candidus was explained by grain moisture contents, suggesting that a factor other than the grain moisture content may also affect its growth. Suppression of rice weevil by A. calandrae could induce an A. candidus-dominant molds community, which would be a factor for consideration in biological control program.
19791622	The rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis Walker, which is a key rice pest in northern parts of Iran, overwinters in rice stubble and weeds as mature larvae. Diapause of this pest is initiated between October to November and terminates in March. Seasonal variations in the supercooling point, survival at low temperatures, and sugar contents were studied in field-collected larvae during different phases of diapause. Ambient temperature was lowest in January and February when larvae were at the highest diapause intensity and achieved a high degree of cold hardiness at -10, -15, and -20 degrees C. Glycerol, a major cryoprotectant, reached a peak in January. It appeared that cold hardiness in the larvae is closely associated with the diapause. For the first time, this study suggests that glucose and glycogen are converted to glycerol during cold seasons, but trehalose has no definite role in the interconversion. During the coldest months, supercooling points (SCPs) increased (around -11 degrees C), and larvae could survive below their SCP values, showing that overwintering larvae of C. suppressalis are freeze tolerant in Iran. Our findings suggest that cold hardiness and diapause are essential components for this species. The overwintering larvae have high capacity of cold hardiness and can overcome severe winters. Understanding of cold hardiness and overwintering behavior of this species may help in integrated pest management of the rice stem borer in paddy fields.
19792760	X-ray absorption spectra on the overdoped high-temperature superconductors Tl2Ba2CuO(6+delta) and La(2-x)SrxCuO(4+/-delta) reveal a striking departure in the electronic structure from that of the underdoped regime. The upper Hubbard band, identified with strong correlation effects, is not observed on the oxygen K edge, while the lowest-energy prepeak gains less intensity than expected above p approximately 0.21. This suggests a breakdown of the Zhang-Rice singlet approximation and a loss of correlation effects or a significant shift in the most fundamental parameters of the system, rendering single-band Hubbard models inapplicable. Such fundamental changes suggest that the overdoped regime may offer a distinct route to understanding in the cuprates.
19793647	The production of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) by a two-step in-situ transesterification from two kinds of rice bran was investigated in this study. The method included an in-situ acid-catalyzed esterification followed by an in-situ base-catalyzed transesterification. Free fatty acids (FFAs) level was reduced to less than 1% for both rice bran A (initial FFAs content=3%) and rice bran B (initial FFAs content=30%) in the first step under the following conditions: 10 g rice bran, methanol to rice bran ratio 15 mL/g, H(2)SO(4) to rice bran mass ratio 0.18, 60 degrees C reaction temperature, 600 rpm stirring rate, 15 min reaction time. The organic phase of the first step product was collected and subjected to a second step reaction by adding 8 mL of 5N NaOH solution and allowing to react for 60 and 30 min for rice bran A and rice bran B, respectively. FAMEs yields of 96.8% and 97.4% were obtained for rice bran A and rice bran B, respectively, after this two-step in-situ reaction.
19793907	Rice stripe disease, caused by rice stripe virus (RSV), is one of the major virus diseases in east Asia. Rice plants infected with RSV usually show symptoms such as chlorosis, weakness, necrosis in newly emerged leaves and stunting. To reveal rice cellular systems influenced by RSV infection, temporal changes in the transcriptome of RSV-infected plants were monitored by a customized rice oligoarray system. The transcriptome changes in RSV-infected plants indicated that protein-synthesis machineries and energy production in the mitochondrion were activated by RSV infection, whereas energy production in the chloroplast and synthesis of cell-structure components were suppressed. The transcription of genes related to host-defence systems under hormone signals and those for gene silencing were not activated at the early infection phase. Together with concurrent observation of virus concentration and symptom development, such transcriptome changes in RSV-infected plants suggest that different sets of various host genes are regulated depending on the development of disease symptoms and the accumulation of RSV.
19794859
19795441	The excellent fungicidal activity of [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidines suggested the search for further analogues with improved properties. A series of novel trisubstituted pyrido[2,3-b]pyrazines has been designed and prepared as 6,6-biheterocyclic analogues of related 5,6-bicyclic [1,2,4]triazolo[1,5-a]pyrimidines. Their fungicidal activity was evaluated against the plant pathogens Puccinia recondita Rob. ex Desm. f. sp. tritici (Eriks.) CO Johnston (wheat brown rust), Mycosphaerella graminicola (Fuckel) Schroter (Septoria tritici Rob., leaf spot of wheat) and Magnaporthe grisea (Hebert) Barr (Pyricularia oryzae Cav., rice blast). Structure-activity relationship studies revealed the advantage of a fluoro substituent in position 6 and of a secondary amine in position 8. 8-Amino-7-aryl-6-halogen-substituted pyrido[2,3-b]pyrazines have been prepared as 6,6-biheterocyclic analogues of similarly substituted triazolopyrimidine fungicides. A concise four-step synthesis route has been worked out to prepare these novel compounds from commercially available starting materials. [(R)-(1,2-Dimethylpropyl)]-[6-fluoro-7-(2,4,6-trifluorophenyl)pyrido[2,3-b]pyrazin-8-yl]amine showed excellent activity against three economically important phytopathogens.
19795645	Paddy soil samples were collected in layers (0-5, 5-12, and 12-20 cm) during rice growth period to investigate the characteristics of the N forms and N-transforming bacteria in the soil profile under different tillage patterns (no-tillage with straw returning, NTS; conventional tillage with straw returning, CTS; no-tillage, NT; and conventional tillage, CT). In the whole rice growth period, ammonifying bacteria in 0-5 cm soil layer had the highest number under NTS, and nitrosobacteria in 0-5 cm and 5-12 cm soil layers were more abundant but in 12-20 cm soil layer were lesser under CT than under NT. Nitrosobacteria and denitrobacteria in 0-20 cm soil layer were lesser under NTS than under CTS. At elongating and ripening stages, anaerobic N-fixing bacteria in 0-5 cm soil layer were more abundant under NT than under CT. In the whole rice growth period, the alkali-hydrolyzable N and total N contents in 0-5 cm soil layer were significantly higher but in 5-12 cm and 12-20 cm soil layers were lower under NT than under CT, and the NH4(+)-N and NO3(-)-N contents in 0-20 cm soil layer were higher under NTS but in 12-20 cm soil layer had no significant differences between NT and CT. Correlation analysis and multiple polynomial regression analysis further revealed that there were significant relationships between soil NH4(+)-N and soil ammonifying bacteria, nitrosobacteria and denitrobacteria, and between soil alkali-hydrolyzable N and soil anaerobic N-fixing bacteria. Among the test tillage patterns, NTS could be the more desirable one for the N supply and fertility maintenance of paddy soil.
19795646	By using self-designed lysimeters, the dynamic changes of ammonia- and nitrate N leakage from the plowpan of paddy field under different N supply were studied, aimed to understand the N leakage loss from paddy field during rice growth period. A dynamic model was built to simulate the N translocation and transformation in rice plant, soil, and water by Vensim software. The data from the field experiment with N fertilization rates of 0, 75, 150, 225, 300, and 375 kg x hm(-2) in Yuhang district, Hangzhou City in 2003 were used for calibrating the model, and the data from the field experiment in 2007 were utilized for validating the model. The simulated N concentrations in the leakage fitted well with the observed data, suggesting that the simulated results were reliable and the model was applicable.
19795647	By using quadratic orthogonal rotation combinatorial design, and taking aluminum (Al), selenium (Se), silicon (Si), and phosphorus (P) as test factors, the regression models of test factors and the survival rate (SR), shoot mass per hundred plants (SMHP), root mass per one hundred plant seedlings (RMHP), and proline contents (PC) of rice seedlings were established, with the individual and interactive effects of the factors analyzed. The individual effects of test factors on the SR, SMHP, RMHP, and PC of rice seedlings decreased in the order of Al > P > Se > Si. Al showed negative effect, while Se, Si, and P showed positive effect. There were no significant interactive effects between the factors, except between Al and Si. Simulated optimization test showed that rice seedlings could grow better in an Al-containing solution when the Al was within the range of 0.587-0.913 mmol L(-1), Se was of 0.478-0.564 mg x L(-1), Si was of 0.613-1.069 mmol x L(-1), and P was of 2.252-2.657 mmol L(-1).
19795662	In order to develop an effective analytical and monitoring method in breeding rice varieties with higher resistance stability to brown planthopper (BPH), Tai's method (1971) was employed to estimate the resistance stability of twelve rice varieties to different biotypes of BPH. It was shown that light intensity, seedling age, and nitrogen application rate had significant effects on the resistance performance and stability of rice varieties to different BPH biotypes. Among the varieties with resistance to BPH biotype II, the RHT, RP1976-18-6-4-2, and Ptb33 showed stable, IR56 showed unstable, while IR36 and ASD7 showed the most unstable resistance; whereas among the varieties susceptible to BPH biotype II, the TN1 showed stable, Guihuazhan, Foshanyouzhan and IR26 showed relatively stable, while Guojing No. 4 and Mudgo showed unstable susceptibility. For the rice varieties resistant to BPH biotype Bangladesh, the RHT, RP1976-18-64-2 and Ptb33 presented unstable, and IR56 presented very unstable resistance; whereas for the varieties susceptible to BPH biotype Bangladesh, the Guihuazhan, Foshanyouzhan and IR26 performed stable, TN1 and IR36 performed unstable, and Guojing No. 4, Mudgo and ASD7 performed the most unstable susceptibility.
19796378	Bioethanol isolated from lignocellulosic biomass represents one of the most promising renewable and carbon neutral alternative liquid fuel sources. Enzymatic saccharification using cellulase has proven to be a useful method in the production of bioethanol. The filamentous fungi Acremonium cellulolyticus and Trichoderma reesei are known to be potential cellulase producers. In this study, we aimed to reveal the advantages and disadvantages of the cellulase enzymes derived from these fungi. We compared A. cellulolyticus and T. reesei cellulase activity against the three lignocellulosic materials: eucalyptus, Douglas fir and rice straw. Saccharification analysis using the supernatant from each culture demonstrated that the enzyme mixture derived from A. cellulolyticus exhibited 2-fold and 16-fold increases in Filter Paper enzyme and beta-glucosidase specific activities, respectively, compared with that derived from T. reesei. In addition, culture supernatant from A. cellulolyticus produced glucose more rapidly from the lignocellulosic materials. Meanwhile, culture supernatant derived from T. reesei exhibited a 2-fold higher xylan-hydrolyzing activity and produced more xylose from eucalyptus (72% yield) and rice straw (43% yield). Although the commercial enzymes Acremonium cellulase (derived from A. cellulolyticus, Meiji Seika Co.) demonstrated a slightly lower cellulase specific activity than Accellerase 1000 (derived from T. reesei, Genencor), the glucose yield (over 65%) from lignocellulosic materials by Acremonium cellulase was higher than that of Accellerase 1000 (less than 60%). In addition, the mannan-hydrolyzing activity of Acremonium cellulase was 16-fold higher than that of Accellerase 1000, and the conversion of mannan to mannobiose and mannose by Acremonium cellulase was more efficient. We investigated the hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials by cellulase derived from two types of filamentous fungi. We found that glucan-hydrolyzing activity of the culture supernatant from A. cellulolyticus was superior to that from T. reesei, while the xylan-hydrolyzing activity was superior for the cellulase from T. reesei. Moreover, Acremonium cellulase exhibited a greater glucan and mannan-hydrolyzing activity than Accellerase 1000.
19796675	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a type of small non-coding RNA found in eukaryotes. They play a key role in gene expression by down-regulating gene expression and are involved in the environment stress response in plants. Although a large number of miRNAs have been identified from Arabidopsis, few studies have focused on Oryza sativa miRNAs, especially on stress-related miRNAs. Five cDNA libraries of small RNAs from rice seedlings treated with cold, dehydration, salinity, and abscisic acid (ABA), as well as wild-type seedlings, were constructed. Seven rice novel miRNAs were identified by Northern analysis, and their expression patterns under different stress treatments were determined. Results showed that the expression of several novel miRNAs was regulated by one or more stress treatments. Our identification of novel stress-related miRNAs in rice suggests that these miRNAs might be involved in rice stress response pathways.
19796886	We present an 11-year-old boy diagnosed as having acute encephalopathy and liver failure with the underlying condition of a metabolic dysfunction. He developed convulsions and severe consciousness disturbance following gastroenteritis after the ingestion of some fried rice. He showed excessive elevation of transaminases, non-ketotic hypoglycemia and hyperammonemia, which were presumed to reflect a metabolic dysfunction of the mitochondrial beta-oxidation, and he exhibited severe brain edema throughout the 5th hospital day. He was subjected to mild hypothermia therapy for encephalopathy, and treated with high-dose methylprednisolone, cyclosporine and continuous hemodiafiltration for liver failure, systemic organ damage and hyperammonemia. The patient recovered with the sequela of just mild intelligence impairment. In this case, Bacillus cereus, producing emetic toxin cereulide, was detected in a gastric fluid specimen, a stool specimen and the fried rice. It was suggested that the cereulide had toxicity to mitochondria and induced a dysfunction of the beta-oxidation process. The patient was considered as having an acute encephalopathy mimicking Reye syndrome due to food poisoning caused by cereulide produced by B. cereus.
19797045	Centromeres, because of their repeat structure and lack of sequence conservation, are difficult to assemble and compare across organisms. It was recently discovered that rice centromeres often contain genes. This suggested a method for studying centromere homologies between wheat and rice chromosomes by mapping rice centromeric genes onto wheat aneuploid stocks. Three of the seven cDNA clones of centromeric genes from rice centromere 8 (Cen8), 6729.t09, 6729.t10, and 6730.t11 which lie in the Cen8 kinetochore region, and three wheat ESTs, BJ301191, BJ305475, and BJ280500, with similarity to sequences of rice centromeric genes, were mapped to the centromeric regions of the wheat group-7 (W7) chromosomes. A possible pericentric inversion in chromosome 7D was detected. Genomewide comparison of wheat ESTs that mapped to centromeric regions against rice genome sequences revealed high conservation and a one-to-one correspondence of centromeric regions between wheat and rice chromosome pairs W1-R5, W2-R7, W3-R1, W5-R12, W6-R2, and W7-R8. The W4 centromere may share homology with R3 only or with R3 + R11. Wheat ESTs that mapped to the pericentromeric region of the group-5 long arm anchored to the rice BACs located in the recently duplicated region at the distal ends of the short arms of rice chromosomes 11 and 12. A pericentric inversion specific to the rice lineage was detected. The depicted framework provides a working model for further studies on the structure and evolution of cereal chromosome centromeres.
19797813	Sago (Metroxylin sagu) is one of the main sources of native starch. In Malaysia sago dishes are commonly eaten with sugar. However, other societies use sago as a staple food item instead of rice or potato. The study was undertaken to investigate the effect of ingestion of different physical forms of sago supplementation on plasma glucose and plasma insulin responses, as compared to the white bread supplementation in man, during resting condition. Twelve male subjects were given in random order with three different physical forms of a sago supplementation, viz., sago porridge (SR), sago paste (SP), sago gel (SG) and white bread (WB) which was repeated on separate days, at least, 1 wk apart after an overnight fast. Venous blood samples were collected at baseline and at 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, 120, 150 and 180 min after the start of each meal and were analyzed for plasma levels of glucose and insulin. Plasma glucose reached peak at 45 min after supplementation of various sago meals. Plasma glucose area under the curve (AUC) for WB was significantly lower than SG but not significantly different from SR and SP. No significant difference was observed in plasma glucose AUC among the three sago meals. Plasma insulin AUC for SG was significantly higher than WB and SR. All three sago meals tested were not significantly different in their glycaemic responses. However, the insulin response was significantly lower for SR compared to SP and SG. The present findings suggest that any one of the three sago meals tested in this study may be used to elucidate the effect of sago starch ingestion on exercise performance in the heat. Sago paste and sago porridge may be used for supplementation before and during exercise, whereas, sago gel may be used after endurance exercise during recovery process.
19798512	Ethylene and jasmonic acid (JA) have been proposed as key compounds for wound signaling in plants. In Arabidopsis, ETHYLENE INSENSITIVE3 (EIN3), which is an essential transcription factor for ethylene signaling, is regulated at the post-transcriptional level, while transcriptional regulation of EIN3 or EIN3-LIKE (EIL) genes has not been well documented. The expression of 6 rice EIL genes (OsEIL1-6) was analyzed and only OsEIL1 and 2 were found to be wound-inducible EIL. OsEIL2 was also induced by JA. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays showed that recombinant OsEIL1 and 2 proteins bound to specific DNA sequences that are recognized by a wound-inducible tobacco EIL. Accumulation of OsEIL1 and 2 transcripts reached a maximum at 1 and 0.5 h after wounding, respectively, and the corresponding DNA-binding activity in nuclear extracts of rice leaves was increased at 1 h after wounding. Candidates for OsEIL-target genes were selected by microarray analysis of wounded rice and by promoter sequence analyses of wound-inducible genes identified by microarray analysis. In OsEIL1- and/or 2-suppressed rice plants, the expression of at least four of 18 candidate genes analyzed was down-regulated. These results indicate the importance of inducible OsEILs in wound signaling in rice.
19798984	The contents of natural radioactive nuclides such as uranium and thorium in paddies were analyzed and compared by means of ICP-MS. Totally 14 paddy samples were distinguished into two groups and collected from two rice planting area. One group (12 paddy samples) was collected from the Xiangshan uranium deposit area, Jiangxi province; while the other group (2 samples) collected from non-uranium deposit suburban area of Fuzhou city, Jiangxi, as comparison samples. The distance between the two sampling areas is about 80 kilometers. Before analysis, those paddy samples were continuously carbonized by two hours first, then continuously incinerated for 8 hours at the temperature of 600 degrees centigrade. The results show that the uranium contents in the paddy ash of samples gotten from Xiangshan uranium deposit area range from 0.053 to 1.482 microg x g(-1). The uranium contents of two comparison paddy samples ash are 0.059 and 0.061 microg x g(-1), respectiovely. The average uranium content of paddy ash of uranium deposit area is 0.323 microg x g(-1). Compared with the comparison samples, the uranium contents of paddy ash of uranium deposit area are considerably high, 5.30 times that of non-uranium deposit area. The thorium contents in paddy ash of the uranium deposit area, however, are relatively low and less than that of samples collected from non-uranium deposit area, which range from 0.029 to 0.311 microg x g(-1); The average level is 0.104 microg x g(-1), only about 50% of that of paddy ash sampled from non-urnaium deposit area. Moreover, there is significant linearity correlation between uranium and thorium contents of paddy sampled from Xiangshan uranium deposit area. The positive effects show that the thorium contents of paddy increase as uranium contents of paddy in uranium deposit area increase. The causes for the remarkable difference in uranium contents in paddy between urianium deposit area and non-uranium deposit area are not clear yet. The research on this topic, however, is very important and significant to the regional rice quality and food security.
19799272	Application of a biogeochemical model, DeNitrification and DeComposition or DNDC, was discussed to assess the impact of CH4 emissions on different soil database from rice fields in Taihu Lake region of China. The results showed that CH4 emissions of the polygon-based soil database of 1:50000, which contained 52034 polygons of paddy soils representing 1107 paddy soil profiles extracted from the latest national soil map (1:50000), were located within the ranges produced by the county-based soil database of 1:50000. However, total emissions of the whole area differed by about 1680 Gg CH4-C. Moreover, CH4 emissions of the polygon-based soil database of 1:50000 and the county-based soil database of 14,000,000, which was the most popular data source when DNDC model was applied in China, have a big estimation discrepancy among each county-based unit in spite of total emissions of the whole area by a difference of 180 Gg CH4-C. This indicated that the more precise soil database was necessary to better simulate CH4 emissions from rice fields in Taihu Lake region using the DNDC model.
19799310	This study was conducted to estimate the lifetime average daily dose (LADDs) and the cumulative cancer risk of PBBs, PBDEs, and PCBs for local residents living in four e-waste disassembly sites and a control site in the Zhejiang Province of China. A total of 191 food samples (including seven food groups and drinking water) were obtained, and the concentrations of the three PHAHs were measured by GC/MS 5975B. The estimated LADDs of PHAHs in the disassembly sites were approximately 2-3 times higher than those in the control site. Among different food groups, LADDs of the three PHAHs through rice consumption accounted for more than 48% of the total cumulative dose. The estimated cumulative cancer risk was 3.81 x 10(-4) for residents living in the disassembly sites, which was about two fold higher than those for the people living in the control site (1.50 x 10(-4)). The results showed that rice consumption was the principal exposure pathway for the intakes of PHAHs, dioxin-like PCBs were the major contributors for the cumulative cancer risks, which accounts for 45% of the total cancer risks.
19799317	A normal temperature lignocellulose-degrading microflora has been constructed by our laboratory. We researched the degradation activity and compose of the community in 28 degrees C fermentation condition. The results showed that the microbial community could degrade 39.6% of rice stew gross weight within five days.The volatile products were detected using CP-Chirasil-Dex CB capillary column by GC-MS, propionic acid, ethanol, isopropyl alcohol, 4-amino-1-butanol, butanoic acid, diethoxydimethyl-silane, lactic acid, ethanol,2,2'-oxybis-, diethyl phthalate and glycerin,more than 10 kinds of volatile products were detected. The state volatile products of changed largely along with the process of decompose, the productions gradually increase, and the content changes much with the process of decompose. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) detected the dynamic change of bacterium compose, the bacterium changes much in different period,the result of Blast from 16S rDNA sequence was found that the closest relative in community belong to Clostridium sp., Brevibacillus sp., Rhizobium sp., Bacterium sp. four genera.
19799551	To study the effect of probenazole on the induced systemic resistance mechanism of rice-bacterial interaction, a proteomic approach was applied. Oryza sativa cv. Java 14 seedlings were treated with probenazole, followed by inoculation with compatible (Xo7435) and incompatible (T7174) races of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae. Cytosolic proteins were fractionated from leaf blades, separated by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Pathogenesis-related protein 5 (PR5) was significantly induced with probenazole treatment followed by inoculation with T7174 or Xo7435. The sense PR5 transgenic rice plants were more highly resistant than the susceptible vector control against Xo7435. These results indicate that probenazole strongly induces PR5 in the interaction between rice and X. oryzae pv. oryzae, and might be involved in the resistance mechanism of rice against bacterial blight.
19799665	The combination effects of pressure (200 to 500 MPa) and temperature (20, 40, and 50 degrees C) on the water uptake and gelatinization characteristics of japonica rice (Tainung 71) grains were investigated. Pressure greater than 200 MPa at all temperatures increased the moisture content and volume of rice grains; meanwhile, the increase content of rice grain volume showed a high correlation with that of moisture content (r(2)= 0.96). The highest degree of gelatinization of 73% was observed at 500 MPa and 50 degrees C for 120 min, while gelatinization did not occur at pressures below 300 MPa and temperatures of 20 and 40 degrees C. The rate of gelatinization followed the 1st-order kinetics at each temperature and pressure. The higher pressures and temperatures would result in higher values of rate constant k which could be correlated with both pressure and temperature by combining Arrhenius and Eyring models.
19799667	Black-colored rice (BCR), the main constituent of which is cyanidin-3-O-beta-D-glucoside (C3G), exhibits an anti-allergic effect, and orally administered C3G is mainly metabolized to protocatechuic acid in rats. Therefore, to understand the relationship between the metabolism of C3G and its pharmacological effect, we isolated C3G from BCR, anaerobically incubated it with fecal microflora, investigated its metabolite(s) by LC-MS/MS, and measured the antiscratching behavioral effects of C3G and its metabolites. C3G was metabolized to protocatechuic acid via cyanidin. Protocatechuic acid and cyanidin were identified as the metabolites. The activities transforming C3G to protocatechuic acid and cyanidin were 28.2 +/- 11.7 and 21.8 +/- 5.2 nmol/h/mg fecal microflora, respectively. C3G and its metabolites showed inhibitory effects against histamine- or compound 48/80-induced scratching behaviors in mice. C3G more potently inhibited scratching behaviors following oral administration than following intraperitoneal administration. However, protocatechuic acid and cyanidin showed more potent inhibition when administered intraperitoneally than when administered orally. These metabolites also inhibited the expression of allergic cytokines, IL-4 and TNF-alpha, and the activation of their transcription factor, NF-kappaB, in RBL-2H3 cells stimulated with IgE-antigen. These findings suggest that C3G-rich BCR may be a beneficial food for diseases involving scratching behaviors, such as chronic dermatitis, rhinitis, and psoriasis.
19800219	Production of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) and furfural from lignocellulosic biomass was studied in ionic liquid in the presence of CrCl(3) under microwave irradiation. Corn stalk, rice straw and pine wood treated under typical reaction conditions produced HMF and furfural in yields of 45-52% and 23-31%, respectively, within 3 min. This method should be valuable to facilitate energy-efficient and cost-effective conversion of biomass into biofuels and platform chemicals.
1980141	The SMO genetic locus in strains of the fungus Magnaporthe grisea that infect weeping lovegrass, directs the formation of correct cell shapes in asexual spores, infection structures, and asci. We have identified and characterized a Smo- strain of M. grisea that infects rice. The smo mutation in this strain segregates as a single gene mutation and is allelic to previously identified smo alleles. A marked reduction in pathogenicity co-segregates with the Smo- phenotype, suggesting that the SMO locus plays a role in rice pathogenicity. A family of dispersed repeated DNA sequences, called MGR, have been discovered in the nuclear DNA of M. grisea rice pathogens. Genetic crosses between Smo- rice pathogens and Smo+ non-rice pathogens were used to follow the segregation of the SMO locus and individual MGR sequences. Using DNA blot analysis with cloned MGR hybridization probes, we mapped the SMO locus to a chromosomal region flanked by two closely linked MGR sequences. We demonstrated that the copy number of MGR sequences could be reduced in subsequent crosses to non-rice pathogens of M. grisea, and that new MGR sequences did not occur following meiosis indicating that these sequences are stable in the genome. We conclude that restriction fragment polymorphism mapping with cloned MGR sequences as hybridization probes is an effective way to map genes in the rice blast fungus.
19801410	Bacteria in biofilms often undergo active dispersal events and revert to a free-swimming, planktonic state to complete the biofilm life cycle. The signaling molecule nitric oxide (NO) was previously found to trigger biofilm dispersal in the opportunistic pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa at low, nontoxic concentrations (N. Barraud, D. J. Hassett, S. H. Hwang, S. A. Rice, S. Kjelleberg, and J. S. Webb, J. Bacteriol. 188:7344-7353, 2006). NO was further shown to increase cell motility and susceptibility to antimicrobials. Recently, numerous studies revealed that increased degradation of the secondary messenger cyclic di-GMP (c-di-GMP) by specific phosphodiesterases (PDEs) triggers a planktonic mode of growth in eubacteria. In this study, the potential link between NO and c-di-GMP signaling was investigated by performing (i) PDE inhibitor studies, (ii) enzymatic assays to measure PDE activity, and (iii) direct quantification of intracellular c-di-GMP levels. The results suggest a role for c-di-GMP signaling in triggering the biofilm dispersal event induced by NO, as dispersal requires PDE activity and addition of NO stimulates PDE and induces the concomitant decrease in intracellular c-di-GMP levels in P. aeruginosa. Furthermore, gene expression studies indicated global responses to low, nontoxic levels of NO in P. aeruginosa biofilms, including upregulation of genes involved in motility and energy metabolism and downregulation of adhesins and virulence factors. Finally, site-directed mutagenesis of candidate genes and physiological characterization of the corresponding mutant strains uncovered that the chemotaxis transducer BdlA is involved in the biofilm dispersal response induced by NO.
19802590	The characterization of gene function typically includes a detailed analysis of loss-of-function alleles. In model plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana and rice, sequence-indexed insertion collections provide a large resource of potential null alleles that can often be easily accessed through convenient Web sites (e.g., http://signal.salk.edu). They are, however, not available for nonmodel species, require stacking for knockout of redundant homologs, and do not easily allow for partial or regulated loss of gene function, which is particularly useful when null alleles are lethal. Transgene approaches that employ directed gene silencing can substitute for null alleles and also enable refined studies of gene function, e.g., by tissue-specific and inducible gene-silencing. This chapter describes the generation and application of artificial microRNAs (amiRNAs) as a gene silencing tool in a wide variety of different plant species.
19802748	To understand the development of rice leaf blades, we identified a new rolled-leaf mutant, w32, from indica cultivar IR64 through EMS mutagenesis. The mutant showed a stable rolled-leaf phenotype throughout the life cycle. Two F2 populations were developed by crossing w32 to cultivar IR24 and PA64. Genetic analysis showed that the rolled-leaf phenotype was controlled by a single recessive gene. To determine the location of the gene, bulked segregant analysis was carried out using mutant and wild-type DNA pools and 1846 mutant-type F2 individuals derived from the cross w32/PA64 were genotyped to locate the gene on the short arm of chromosome 7. The rolled-leaf gene, tentatively named rl11(t), is likely a new gene as no other rolled-leaf genes have been identified near the region. By developing new SSR and InDel markers, the gene was delimited to a 52 kb region near the end of the short chromosome arm. Further fine mapping and cloning of the gene are currently underway.
19802756	The aim of this study was to determine the levels of Penicillium citreonigrum and citreoviridin present in rice samples from Maranhão State, Brazil, where an outbreak of beriberi was reported and 32 deaths occurred (7% of the notified cases died in 2006). The ability of P. citreonigrum to produce citreoviridin was assessed, and a total of 420 samples of 21 different kinds of rice were collected. Mycobiota isolation and identification, the ability of citreoviridin strains to produce toxin, and the natural occurrence of citreoviridin were established. Rice samples were found to have high fungal counts and showed increasing levels from 2004 to 2007 harvest years. The most frequent genus was Aspergillus followed by Penicillium and Cladosporium. Ten out of eleven strains of P. citreonigrum were able to produce citreoviridin. Three rice samples had levels of citreoviridin ranging from 12 to 96.7 ng g(-1), and two bran samples had levels of 128 and 254 ng g(-1). These samples contaminated with P. citreonigrum and citreoviridin were involved in the beriberi cases from Maranhão State. Monitoring rice for mycotoxins in areas where this substrate is the basic food is crucial to prevent outbreaks like the one reported in this study, to improve management practice, and to diminish exposure risk of humans to these harmful toxins.
19803162	With two rice genotypes (cv. Zhongbu 51 and Azucena) differing in their root-secreted acid phosphatase activity (APA) under low P condition as test materials, an agar culture experiment was conducted to investigate their P utilization from myo-inositol hexaphosphate (IHP) under conditions of sterilization and inoculating with soil microorganisms. Under sterilization, the shoot dry mass, P absorption and P concentration of test genotypes supplied with hexaphosphate (IHP) as the P source were significantly higher than those with no P supply, but significantly lower than those supplied with inorganic P, indicating that rice plants could partly acquire P from IHP under sterilized condition. The root-secreted APA of the two genotypes was significantly higher under low P than under sufficient P supply, and the higher APA of Zhongbu 51 under low P could be one of the mechanisms of higher P utilization capability of Zhongbu 51 than Azucena under deficient P supply. When supplied with high level IHP (0.96 mmol P x L(-1)), the shoot dry mass, P absorption and P concentration of both Zhongbu 51 and Azucena were higher than those when supplied with low level IHP (0.16 mmol P x L(-1)), indicating that substrate availability could be one of the limiting factors to the utilization of phytate by rice. Inoculation with soil microorganisms had no significant effects on the shoot dry mass, P absorption and P concentration of rice plants, regardless of IHP level and rice genotypes, implying that the utilization of IHP by rice could not be improved via inoculation with soil microorganisms.
19803166	Using rice variety DI508 as test material, a field experiment of different seeding dates and a test with plant growth chamber were conducted to study the dynamic changes of rice tiller angle under effects of different photoperiod and effective accumulated temperature. Under field condition, the tiller angle of DI508 plants changed gradually into erect after 10-15 days of photoperiod becoming shorter (since the Summer Solstice on 21st June), irrespective of seeding dates (4th April, 5th May, and 4th June). Under controlled photoperiod, the tiller angle changed in the same way as in the field. Shorter lighting treatment (10 hours) advanced the tiller angle change, while longer lighting treatment (14 hours) delayed the change. Effective accumulated temperature had no effects on the tiller angle change of DI508.
19803177	A laboratory study was made on the interactive effects of temperature (20 degrees C, 23 degrees C, 26 degrees C, 29 degrees C, and 32 degrees C) and nitrogen fertilization level (0 and 250 kg x hm(-2)) on the survival, development, and reproduction of brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens. With increasing temperature from 20 degrees C to 29 degrees C, the egg hatchability, nymphal survival, and adult fecundity of BPH increased and the developmental duration of all stages shortened; while at 32 degrees C, it was in adverse. At all test temperatures, the BPH on rice plants treated with 250 kg N x hm(-2) had higher egg hatchability, nymphal survival and adult fecundity, and shorter developmental duration of eggs and nymphs, compared with no nitrogen fertilization, which suggested that high level nitrogen fertilization enhanced the ecological adaptability of BPH to stress conditions. There were significant interactive effects of temperature and nitrogen fertilizer on the egg hatchability, nymphal duration, and adult fecundity of BPH, implying that global warming and long-term high level application of nitrogen fertilizer could be responsible for the outbreaks of BPH in recent years.
19803187	Vertical and 'T' types of lysimeter were used to measure the concentrations of ammonia N, nitrate N, and total nitrogen (TN) in the leakage of paddy field in rice growth season under different N application levels. For ammonia N, its concentration measured with these two types of lysimeter all ranged in 0-8 mg x L(-1) in 2007 and 0-4 mg x L(-1) in 2006; for nitrate N, its concentration measured with vertical lysimeter was 0-4 mg x L(-1) in 2007 and basically the same in 2006, while that measured with 'T' type lysimeter was 0-20 mg x L(-1) in 2007 but lower in 2006. The TN concentration in the leakage was 0-60 mg x L(-1) in 2007, much higher than that (0-16 mg x L(-1)) in 2006. In the leakage, nitrate N was the dominant N form. The total leakage loss of N in whole rice growth season in 2007 was 15.81 kg x hm(-2) of TN and 9.33 kg x hm(-2) of nitrate N when measured with vertical lysimeter, and 7.21 kg x hm(-2) of TN and 4.25 kg x hm(-2) of nitrate N when measured with 'T' type lysimeter. Due to the difference in the pathways of ammonia-N and nitrate-N leakage, different methods for calculating N leakage should be employed when using the two types of lysimeter in measurement. The N leakage measured by vertical lysimeter was more close to that estimated by paddy plot-leaching measurement method.
19804864	Archaeal and bacterial community structures in heavily oil-contaminated and pristine soils were compared using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and 16S rRNA gene libraries. The results showed that archaeal diversity was more complex in the contaminated soil than in the uncontaminated control soil. Archaeal populations in the contaminated soil consisted mainly of Euryarchaeota, with abundant methanogen-like operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and OTUs related to the phylogenetically diverse group, candidate division I, corresponding to rice cluster V. In contrast, only halophilic archaea were found in the pristine soil. Bacterial community structures also differed significantly between the contaminated and pristine soils. More clones from the contaminated soil were related to known hydrocarbon-degrading bacteria, implying that microorganisms with the potential to degrade petroleum were well-established. These results provide further insights into the composition of microbial communities in oil-contaminated soils.
19804867	Biodegradation of crystal violet by white rot fungus Pleurotus ostreatus BP in rice straw solid-state medium mostly depended on low molecular mass fraction (LMMF) and the hypothetical metabolic pathways of crystal violet by LMMF was proposed by the biodegradation of crystal violet and by the deduced six metabolites formed.
19804968	Rice straw was treated with a mixed solution of acetic acid and propionic acid to enhance its biodegradability. The effect of acid concentration, pretreatment time, and the ratio of solid to liquid on the delignification performance of rice straw were investigated. It was found that the optimal conditions for hydrolysis were 0.75 mol/L acid concentration, 2h pretreatment time and 1:20 solid to liquid ratio. Batch methane fermentation of untreated rice straw, pretreated rice straw, and the hydrolysates (the liquid fraction) of pretreatment were conducted at 35 degrees C for 30 days, and the results indicated that methane production of rice straw can be enhanced by dilute organic acid pretreatment. Moreover, most of the acid in hydrolysates can also be converted into methane gas.
19806197	In West Africa two rice species (Oryza glaberrima Steud. and Oryza sativa L.) co-exist. Although originally it was thought that interspecific hybridization is impossible without biotechnological methods, progenies of hybridization appear to occur in farmer fields. AFLP analysis was used to assess genetic diversity in West Africa (including the countries The Gambia, Senegal, Guinea Bissau, Guinea Conakry, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Togo) using 315 rice samples morphologically classified prior to analysis. We show evidence for farmer interspecific hybrids of African and Asian rice, resulting in a group of novel genotypes, and identify possible mechanisms for in-field hybridization. Spontaneous back-crossing events play a crucial role, resulting in different groups of genetic diversity in different regions developed by natural and cultural selection, often under adverse conditions. These new groups of genotypes may have potential relevance for exploitation by plant breeders. Future advances in crop development could be achieved through co-operation between scientists and marginalized farmer groups in order to address challenges of rapid adaptation in a world of increasing socio-political and climatic uncertainty.
19807881	Although susceptibility to seed shattering causes severe yield loss during cereal crop harvest, it is an adaptive trait for seed dispersal in wild plants. We previously identified a recessive shattering locus, sh-h, from the rice shattering mutant line Hsh that carries an enhanced abscission layer. Here, we further mapped sh-h to a 34-kb region on chromosome 7 by analyzing 240 F(2) plants and five F(3) lines from the cross between Hsh and Blue&Gundil. Hsh had a point mutation at the 3' splice site of the seventh intron within LOC_Os07g10690, causing a 15-bp deletion of its mRNA as a result of altered splicing. Two transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutants and one point mutant exhibited the enhanced shattering phenotype, confirming that LOC_Os07g10690 is indeed the sh-h gene. RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic lines with suppressed expression of this gene exhibited greater shattering. This gene, which encodes a protein containing a conserved carboxy-terminal domain (CTD) phosphatase domain, was named Oryza sativa CTD phosphatase-like 1 (OsCPL1). Subcellular localization and biochemical analysis revealed that the OsCPL1 protein is a nuclear phosphatase, a common characteristic of metazoan CTD phosphatases involved in cell differentiation. These results demonstrate that OsCPL1 represses differentiation of the abscission layer during panicle development.
19808807	Plant male reproductive development is highly organized and sensitive to various environmental stressors, including high temperature. We have established an experimental procedure to evaluate high temperature injury in japonica rice plants. High temperature treatment (39 degrees C/30 degrees C) starting at the microspore stage repeatedly reduced spikelet fertility in our system. Morphological observations revealed that pollen viability in plants exposed to high temperatures was lower than that in control plants. Most pollen grains in high temperature-treated plants displayed a normal round shape and stained reddish purple with Alexander's reagent; however, the pollen grains were very poorly attached and displayed limited germination on the stigma. To investigate gene regulatory mechanisms in the anther in high temperature environments, DNA microarray analysis was performed by comparing non-treated samples with samples treated with 2-4 d of high heat. Genes responsive to high temperatures were identified from clustering of microarray data. Among these, at least 13 were designated as high temperature-repressed genes in the anther. Expression analyses revealed that these genes were expressed specifically in the immature anther mainly in the tapetum at the microspore stage and down-regulated after 1 d of high temperature. The expression levels of Osc6, OsRAFTIN and TDR, which are tapetum-specific genes, were unaffected by high temperatures. These results suggest that not all tapetal genes are inhibited by increased temperatures and the tapetum itself is not degraded in such an environment. However, high temperatures may disrupt some of the tapetum functions required for pollen adhesion and germination on the stigma.
19808935	MicroRNAs (miRNA) are approximately 21 nucleotide-long non-coding small RNAs, which function as post-transcriptional regulators in eukaryotes. miRNAs play essential roles in regulating plant growth and development. In recent years, research into the mechanism and consequences of miRNA action has made great progress. With whole genome sequence available in such plants as Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, Glycine max, etc., it is desirable to develop a plant miRNA database through the integration of large amounts of information about publicly deposited miRNA data. The plant miRNA database (PMRD) integrates available plant miRNA data deposited in public databases, gleaned from the recent literature, and data generated in-house. This database contains sequence information, secondary structure, target genes, expression profiles and a genome browser. In total, there are 8433 miRNAs collected from 121 plant species in PMRD, including model plants and major crops such as Arabidopsis, rice, wheat, soybean, maize, sorghum, barley, etc. For Arabidopsis, rice, poplar, soybean, cotton, medicago and maize, we included the possible target genes for each miRNA with a predicted interaction site in the database. Furthermore, we provided miRNA expression profiles in the PMRD, including our local rice oxidative stress related microarray data (LC Sciences miRPlants_10.1) and the recently published microarray data for poplar, Arabidopsis, tomato, maize and rice. The PMRD database was constructed by open source technology utilizing a user-friendly web interface, and multiple search tools. The PMRD is freely available at http://bioinformatics.cau.edu.cn/PMRD. We expect PMRD to be a useful tool for scientists in the miRNA field in order to study the function of miRNAs and their target genes, especially in model plants and major crops.
19809091	Flooding is a widespread natural disaster that leads to oxygen (O(2)) and energy deficiency in terrestrial plants, thereby reducing their productivity. Rice is unusually tolerant to flooding, but the underlying mechanism for this tolerance has remained elusive. Here, we show that protein kinase CIPK15 [calcineurin B-like (CBL)-interacting protein kinase] plays a key role in O(2)-deficiency tolerance in rice. CIPK15 regulates the plant global energy and stress sensor SnRK1A (Snf1-related protein kinase 1) and links O(2)-deficiency signals to the SnRK1-dependent sugar-sensing cascade to regulate sugar and energy production and to enable rice growth under floodwater. Our studies contribute to understanding how rice grows under the conditions of O(2) deficiency necessary for growing rice in irrigated lowlands.
19809173	The maize weevil, Sitophilus zeamais, is an insect pest infesting rice and corn seeds. We identified an aspartic proteinase (AP) digesting rice glutelin in the alimentary tract of S. zeamais. The mRNA encoding the AP (SAP1) was expressed in the larvae foregut and in the adult midgut. These results indicate that SAP1 is probably digestive enzyme of S. zeamais.
19810350	Significant cadmium (Cd) contamination In soil and rice has been discovered in Mae Sot, Tak province, Thailand where the rice-based agricultural systems are established in the vicinity of a zinc mine. The prolonged consumption of Cd contaminated rice has potential risks to public health and health impacts of Cd exposed populations in Mae Sot have been demonstrated. The Thai government has prohibited rice cultivation in the area as an effort to prevent further exposure. Phytoextraction, the use of plants to remove contaminants from soil, is a potential option to manage Cd-contaminated areas. However, successful phytoextraction depends on first identifying effective hyperaccumulator plants appropriate for local climatic conditions. Five sampling sites at Padaeng Zinc mine, Tak province were selected to collect plant and soil samples. Total Cd and Zn concentrations in sediments or soils were approximately 596 and 20,673 mg kg(-1) in tailing pond area, 543 and 20,272 mg kg(-1) in open pit area, 894 and 31,319 mg kg(-1) in stockpile area, 1458 and 57,012 mg kg(-1) in forest area and 64 and 2733 mg kg(-1) in Cd contaminated rice field. Among a total of 36 plant species from 16 families, four species (Chromolaena odoratum, Gynura pseudochina, Impatiens violaeflora and Justicia procumbens) could be considered as Cd hyperaccumulators since their shoot Cd concentrations exceeded 100 mg Cd kg(-1) dry mass and they showed a translocation factor >1. Only Justicia procumbens could be considered as a Zn hyperaccumulator (Zn concentration in its shoot more than 10,000 mg Zn kg(-1) dry mass with the translocation factor >1).
19810562	In the present paper, the contents of 8 elements in brown rice of 789 accessions core collection for rice landrace from 16 prefectures of five rice regions in Yunnan province were determined by ICP-AES technique. The method proves to be simple, rapid, highly sensitive and accurate, and can be used to determine many elements at the same time. Its recovery ratio obtained by standard addition method ranged from 97.1% to 110.2%, and its RSD was from 0.7% to 4.4%. The analytical results showed that the elemental concentrations (mg x kg(-1)) in brown rice are in turn of P(3 834.83 +/- 486.49) > K(2 567.72 +/- 336.74) > Mg (2 567.72 +/- 336.74) > Ca (153.67 +/- 55.90) > Zn(33.35 +/- 13.65) > Fe(32.08 +/- 25.51) > Cu (14.22 +/- 11.85) > Mn(13.58 +/- 3.22). The highest P content is in brown rice from the northwest Yunnan with the rich nonferrous metals and most abundance of biodiversity in the world, the highest Ca, Mg, Fe and Zn concentrations are in brown rice from the middle Yunnan with early cambrian fauna and phosphorite enrichment, and the highest Cu and Mn contents are in brown rice from the southwest Yunnan with the prominent crop diversity. The distributing zones with the highest P and K, middle Ca, Mg and Mn and lowest Fe and Zn in Yunnan are the enrichment zone of minal resources and largest biodiversity. As far as we know, this is the first report that the zonal characterstics of mineral elemental concentractions in brown rice are associated with a lot of factors, such as biodiversity center, enrichment zone of minal resources, origin of life, mountain ranges and rivers and so on, and further it was deduced that the asymmetry of distribution for mineral elements and its reciprocity of mountain ranges and rivers are the key of origin of life. The above results provided reliable data and theory bases for the malnourished Fe and Zn and Ca for 4 billion people in the world, origin of life, the genetic breeding and production of functional rice.
19810563	Rare earth elements are important nutritional elements for human health, and today more and more attention has been paid to the effective components in Chinese traditional medicine, especially to rare earth elements. Fifteen rare earth elements in wild hypericum japonicum Thunb were analyzed by the methods of ICP-MS. The results showed that the concentrations of La, Ce, Pr, Nd, Sm, Eu, Gd, Tb, Dy, Ho, Er, Yb, Tm, Lu and Y ranged from 6 ng x g(-1) x DW to 14 522 ng x g(-1) x DW, and among them the concentrations of La, Ce and Nd were higher than 2 000 ng x g(-1) x DW. Compared with the concentration of rare earth elements in rice, corn, wheat and barley, the total concentration of rare earth elements in hypericum japonicum Thunb was much higher, which could be the mechanism of curative effect of hypericum japonicum Thunb on liverish diseases. The character of elements and the content of rare earth elements in soil should be responsible for the difference, but the distributive mechanism of rare earth elements in hypericum japonicum Thunb should be further studied.
19810803	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is a devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa). The mechanisms involved in resistance of rice to blast have been studied extensively and the rice-M. oryzae pathosystem has become a model for plant-microbe interaction studies. However, the mechanisms involved in nonhost resistance (NHR) of other plants to rice blast are still poorly understood. Here, we investigated interactions between Arabidopsis thaliana and M. oryzae to identify the genetic basis of NHR. In A. thaliana accessions, preinvasion resistance to M. oryzae in Col-0 was stronger than that of Ler. To examine the genetic basis underlying the natural variation in the responses, we used a well-established set of recombinant inbred lines (RIL) derived from a Col x Ler cross and identified three quantitative trait loci that govern the expression of NHR in A. thaliana against M. oryzae. Among the penetration (pen) mutants, only the pen2 mutant allowed increased penetration into epidermal cells by M. oryzae. Double mutant analysis indicated that AGB1 and PMR5 contribute to PEN2-mediated preinvasion resistance to M. oryzae in A. thaliana, suggesting a complex genetic network regulating the resistance. Our results demonstrate that A. thaliana can be used to study mechanisms of NHR to M. oryzae.
19811687	As a major component of plant cell wall, lignin plays important roles in mechanical support, water transport, and stress responses. As the main cause for the recalcitrance of plant cell wall, lignin modification has been a major task for bioenergy feedstock improvement. The study of the evolution and function of lignin biosynthesis genes thus has two-fold implications. First, the lignin biosynthesis pathway provides an excellent model to study the coordinative evolution of a biochemical pathway in plants. Second, understanding the function and evolution of lignin biosynthesis genes will guide us to develop better strategies for bioenergy feedstock improvement. We analyzed lignin biosynthesis genes from fourteen plant species and one symbiotic fungal species. Comprehensive comparative genome analysis was carried out to study the distribution, relatedness, and family expansion of the lignin biosynthesis genes across the plant kingdom. In addition, we also analyzed the comparative synteny map between rice and sorghum to study the evolution of lignin biosynthesis genes within the Poaceae family and the chromosome evolution between the two species. Comprehensive lignin biosynthesis gene expression analysis was performed in rice, poplar and Arabidopsis. The representative data from rice indicates that different fates of gene duplications exist for lignin biosynthesis genes. In addition, we also carried out the biomass composition analysis of nine Arabidopsis mutants with both MBMS analysis and traditional wet chemistry methods. The results were analyzed together with the genomics analysis. The research revealed that, among the species analyzed, the complete lignin biosynthesis pathway first appeared in moss; the pathway is absent in green algae. The expansion of lignin biosynthesis gene families correlates with substrate diversity. In addition, we found that the expansion of the gene families mostly occurred after the divergence of monocots and dicots, with the exception of the C4H gene family. Gene expression analysis revealed different fates of gene duplications, largely confirming plants are tolerant to gene dosage effects. The rapid expansion of lignin biosynthesis genes indicated that the translation of transgenic lignin modification strategies from model species to bioenergy feedstock might only be successful between the closely relevant species within the same family.
19811767	Yellow stem borer (YSB), Scirpophaga incertulas (Lepidoptera: Crambidae), a monophagous pest of paddy is considered as most important pest of rain fed low land and flood prone rice eco-systems. Breeding of yellow stem borer resistance in rice is difficult owing to the complex genetics of the trait, inherent difficulties in screening and poor understanding of the genetics of resistance. On the other hand, a good level of resistance against the widespread yellow stem borer has been rare in the rice germplasm. Resistance to insects has been demonstrated in transgenic plants expressing genes for delta-endotoxins from Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt), protease inhibitors, enzymes and plant lectins. The performance of insect resistant GM rice in trials in China has been quite impressive. The present review is an attempt to assess the current state of development in biotechnological intervention for yellow stem borer resistance in rice.
19812064	Several brittle culm (bc) mutants known in grasses are considered excellent materials to study the process of secondary cell wall formation. The brittle phenotype of the rice bc5 (brittle node) mutant appears exclusively in the developed nodes, which is distinct from other bc mutants (bc1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7) that show the brittle phenotype in culms and leaves. To address the defects of the rice bc5 mutant in node-specific cell wall formation, we analyzed tissue morphology and cell wall composition. The bc5 mutation was found to affect the cell wall deposition of node sclerenchyma tissues at 1 week after heading, the stage at which the cell wall sugar content is reduced, in the bc5 nodes, compared with wild-type nodes. Moreover, decreased accumulation of lignin and thickness of cell walls in the sclerenchyma tissues were also observed in the bc5 nodes. The amounts of cellulose and hemicellulose were reduced to 53 and 65% of those in the wild-type plants, respectively. Sugar composition and glycosidic linkage analyses of the hemicellulose showed that the accumulation of glucuronosyl arabinoxylan in bc5 nodes was perturbed by the mutation. The bc5 locus was narrowed to an approximately 3.1 Mb region of chromosome 2, where none of the other bc genes is located. The bc5 mutation appeared to reduce the expression levels of the OsCesA genes in the nodes after heading. The results indicate that the BC5 gene regulates the development of secondary cell walls of node sclerenchyma tissues.
19812186	Replication protein A (RPA), a highly conserved single-stranded DNA-binding protein in eukaryotes, is a stable complex comprising three subunits termed RPA1, RPA2, and RPA3. RPA is required for multiple processes in DNA metabolism such as replication, repair, and homologous recombination in yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and human. Most eukaryotic organisms, including fungi, insects, and vertebrates, have only a single RPA gene that encodes each RPA subunit. Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), however, possess multiple copies of an RPA gene. Rice has three paralogs each of RPA1 and RPA2, and one for RPA3. Previous studies have established their biochemical interactions in vitro and in vivo, but little is known about their exact function in rice. We examined the function of OsRPA1a in rice using a T-DNA insertional mutant. The osrpa1a mutants had a normal phenotype during vegetative growth but were sterile at the reproductive stage. Cytological examination confirmed that no embryo sac formed in female meiocytes and that abnormal chromosomal fragmentation occurred in male meiocytes after anaphase I. Compared with wild type, the osrpa1a mutant showed no visible defects in mitosis and chromosome pairing and synapsis during meiosis. In addition, the osrpa1a mutant was hypersensitive to ultraviolet-C irradiation and the DNA-damaging agents mitomycin C and methyl methanesulfonate. Thus, our data suggest that OsRPA1a plays an essential role in DNA repair but may not participate in, or at least is dispensable for, DNA replication and homologous recombination in rice.
19814555	Mass spectra from Penning ionization by metastable atom bombardment (MAB) in the title system at kinetic energies near 1 kcal/mol are reported. The experiments employ a supersonic excited noble gas beam crossing an effusive beam of formamide vapor. Product ions are extracted perpendicular to the plane of the beams, analyzed by a quadrupole mass filter, and counted by a scintillation-type ion counter. Relative to 70 eV electron impact, the He(*) and Ne(*) spectra show more extensive breakage of C-N and C-H bonds despite the smaller available energy, while the Ar(*) spectrum shows only the molecular ion (m/z 45), H atom elimination (44), and the decarbonylation products CO+NH(3)(+) (17). Fragmentation in the latter system has been analyzed using a combination of ab initio calculations and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory with tunneling correction; good agreement with the experimental 45/44/17 intensity ratio 100/6.8+/-0.7/6.2+/-1.7 is obtained. 15% of m/z 17 and 50% of m/z 44 is attributed to tunneling. The ab initio decarbonylation reaction path yields a hydrogen bonded H(2)N-HCO(+) transition state, which transfers a proton while proceeding downhill to the observed products, while both the path and the energetics support the earlier conclusion that the lowest lying electronically excited state of the ion (2pi or 2a(")) crosses the ground state early along the reaction path, thereby dominating the dynamics of decarbonylation.
19814792	When generating a genetically modified organism (GMO), the primary goal is to give a target organism one or several novel traits by using biotechnology techniques. A GMO will differ from its parental strain in that its pool of transcripts will be altered. Currently, there are no methods that are reliably able to determine if an organism has been genetically altered if the nature of the modification is unknown. We show that the concept of computational subtraction can be used to identify transgenic cDNA sequences from genetically modified plants. Our datasets include 454-type sequences from a transgenic line of Arabidopsis thaliana and published EST datasets from commercially relevant species (rice and papaya). We believe that computational subtraction represents a powerful new strategy for determining if an organism has been genetically modified as well as to define the nature of the modification. Fewer assumptions have to be made compared to methods currently in use and this is an advantage particularly when working with unknown GMOs.
19814847	The polyphagous insect Sitophilus oryzae L. (Coleoptera:Curculionidae) has a tremendous adaptability in feeding behaviour, making it a serious invasive pest of stored cereals. The present study identifies the metabolite composition of Sitophilus oryzae (S. oryzae) using Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) spectroscopy. Assignment of 1D-proton by NMR, 1H-1H COSY, 2D-TOCSY 1H-1H, had been done. Amongst the various biochemically important metabolites isoleucine, valine, leucine, beta-hydroxybutyrate, lysine, glutamate, glutamine, proline, lactate, alanine, di-methylamine, alpha-glucose, beta-glucose, choline, glycerophosphorylcholine and tyrosine are present in S. oryzae. In wheat-fed S. oryzae, the presence of threonine and the absence of lactate is observed. In rice-fed S. oryzae, however, the presence of lactate and the absence of threonine were observed. Barley-fed S. oryzae shows presence of both tyrosine and lactate. It is concluded that the pest S. oryzae has adaptability on different stored cereals and grains, depicting the presence of earlier reported metabolites. The present study aims to identify the key metabolic components and associated enzymes in Sitophilus oryzae fed on different cereals.
19815041	Neural-tube defects (NTDs) are considered to be the most common congenital malformations. As Shanxi Province, a poor region in the North of China, has one of the highest reported prevalence rates of NTDs in the world, folate fortification of rice is an excellent alternative to low intake of folate acid pills in this region. This paper investigates the relations between socio-demographic indicators, consumer characteristics (knowledge, consumer perceptions on benefits, risks, safety and price), willingness-to-accept and willingness-to-pay genetically modified (GM) rice. The consumer survey compromises 944 face-to-face interviews with rice consumers in Shanxi Province, China. Multivariate analyses consist of multinomial logistic regression and multiple regression. The results indicate that consumers generally are willing-to-accept GM rice, with an acceptance rate of 62.2%. Acceptance is influenced by objective knowledge and consumers' perceptions on benefits and risks. Willingness-to-pay GM rice is influenced by objective knowledge, risk perception and acceptance. Communication towards the use of GM rice should target mainly improving knowledge and consumers' perceptions on high-risk groups within Shanxi Province, in particular low educated women.
19816106	We have identified a novel cDNA clone, termed DcCDT1, from Digitaria ciliaris, that confers cadmium (Cd)-tolerance to yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae). The gene encodes a predicted peptide of 55 amino acid residues of which 15 (27.3%) are cysteine residues. We found that monocotyledonous plants possess multiple DcCDT1 homologues, for example rice contains five DcCDT1 homologues (designated OsCDT1~5), whereas dicotyledonous plants, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Brassica rapa, poplar (Populus tremula x Populus alba) and Picea sitchensis, appear to possess only a single homologue. GFP fusion experiments demonstrate that DcCDT1 and OsCDT1 are targeted to both the plant cytoplasmic membranes and cell walls. Constitutive expression of DcCDT1 or OsCDT1 confers Cd-tolerance to transgenic A. thaliana plants by lowering the accumulation of Cd in the cells. The functions of the DcCDT1 family members are discussed in the light of these findings.
19816108	The OsSIPK expression is transcriptionally regulated in time and space by diverse environmental stresses and phytohormones. Rice OsSIPK and its orthologs in other plants are highly conserved and appear to have overlapping physiological responses. Given our interest in understanding the signaling and metabolic pathways responsible for environmental factors, we briefly discuss the role of OsSIPK in ozone-triggered physiological responses, particularly in rice. We also provide evidence on tight correlation between ozone-induced OsSIPK expression and ethylene production.
19816111	Accumulated evidences suggest that brassinosteroid (BR) response is fine-tuned by multiple strategies. Recently, a GRAS protein, DLT, was identified to be involved in rice BR signaling. Transcription analysis of most known BR-related genes, including biosynthetic genes, signaling genes and also several downstream BR responsive genes, reveals DLT has extensive effects on BR-related genes expression, indicating its important role in modulating BR response. By promoter and protein sequence analysis, a complicated and subtle network was proposed that DLT may be involved in fine-modulating BR response at both transcriptional and protein levels. This provides new insights into BR signaling pathway and also gives a clear direction for the future work.
19816129
19816140	The shoot apical meristem is maintained by the intercellular factor, CLV3, a dodecapeptide in Arabidopsis. CLV3 belongs to the CLE family and putative CLE genes have been found in various plants, even in the moss Physcomitrella patens. Here, we report that a pteridophyte, Selaginella moelendorffii, also has 15 putative CLE genes in its genome. On the other hand, CLV1 is reported to function as a receptor for the CLV3 peptide, and other CLE peptides might be recognized by CLV1 homologues in various plants. Recent genetic studies of the crn and sol2 mutants of Arabidopsis have revealed that SOL2/CRN encodes a receptor-like kinase protein. SOL2/CRN functions together with CLV2 independently of CLV1 in the CLE signaling pathway. Phylogenetic analysis of CLV1, CLV2 and SOL2/CRN revealed that Arabidopsis, rice, Populus trichocarpa and Vitis vinifera have one copy of the SOL2/CRN and CLV2 homologues, and Selaginella moelendorffii and Physcomitrella patens have no homologues. In contrast, a number of CLV1 homologues were identified in the genomic databases of Arabidopsis, rice, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera, and even a pteridophyte, Selaginella moelendorffii, and a moss, Physcomitrella patens. These results indicate that CLV1 and its homologues play multiple roles in plant development and environmental responses, whereas SOL2/CRN and CLV2 have more specific roles in vascular plants.
19816724	T-DNA insertional mutagenesis is one of the most important approaches for gene discovery and cloning. A fertile polyembryo mutant generated by T-DNA/Ds insertion in Oryza sativa, cv. Basmati 370 showed twin or triple seedlings at a frequency of 15-20%. T-DNA insertion was confirmed by 950 bp hpt gene amplification in the promoter region of the candidate gene. The annotated protein corresponding to the OsPE candidate gene has been reported as a hypothetical protein in O. sativa. OsPE gene lacked functional homologs in other species. No OsPE paralog was found in rice. No conserved domains were found in the protein coded by OsPE. RT-PCR showed the expression of OsPE gene in Basmati 370 shoots. Full-length OsPE gene was cloned in Basmati 370. The combined use of Southern blot, genome walking, TAIL-PCR, RT-PCR techniques, and bioinformatics led to the identification of a candidate gene controlling the multiple embryos in rice. There is gain of function, i.e., multiple embryos in the seeds in the knockout mutant OsPE whereas its wild-type allele strictly controls single embryo per seed. The seeds with multiple embryos are distributed at random in the rice mutant panicle. The origin of multiple embryos, whether apomictic, zygotic or both is under investigation.
19816997	We cloned and characterized a rice gene OsBIABP1 encoding an AMP-binding protein. The full-length cDNA of OsBIABP1 is 1912-bp long and is predicted to encode a 558-aa protein. OsBIABP1 contains a typical AMP-binding signature motif and shows high similarity to members of AMP-binding protein family. OsBIABP1 is expressed in stems, leaves and flowers of rice plants, but is not expressed, or expressed at a very low level, in rice roots. The expression of OsBIABP1 was induced by some defense-related signal molecules, e.g., salicylic acid (SA), benzothiadiazole, jasmonic acid (JA), and 1-amino cyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid, which mediate SA- and JA/ethylene (ET)-dependent defense signaling pathways, respectively. Furthermore, the expression of OsBIABP1 is activated by the infection of Magnaporthe oryzae, and the induced expression is quicker and stronger during early stages of pathogenesis in incompatible interaction than that in compatible interaction between rice and M. oryzae. Our results suggest that OsBIABP1 may be a defense-related AMP-binding protein that is involved in the regulation of defense response through SA and/or JA/ET signaling pathways.
19817003	Root gravitropism is one of the important factors to determine root architecture. To understand the mechanism underlying root gravitropism, we isolated a rice (Xiushui63) mutant defective in root gravitropism, designated as gls1. Vertical sections of root caps revealed that gls1 mutant displayed normal distribution of amyloplast in the columella cells compared with the wild type. The gls1 mutant was less sensitive to 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid (2,4-D) and alpha-naphthaleneacetic acid (NAA) than the wild type. Genetic analysis indicated that the phenotype of gls1 mutant was caused by a single recessive mutation, which is mapped in a 255-kb region between RM16253 and CAPS1 on the short arm of chromosome 4.
19819411	Crop duration of a rice plant, essentially dictated by flowering response, is an important selection criterion. It is determined by the interaction of genotype and environment. A field experiment was conducted with 40 rice genotypes to assess the fluctuation and/or stability of crop duration in a series of 16 environmental conditions. The effects of genotype, environment and all the components of G x E interaction were highly significant. Among the genotypes Benaful and Gandho kasturi were most sensitive to environmental changes, and indicating lower adaptability over the environments. Crop durations of 17 genotypes were comparatively stable against environmental changes. Four genotypes viz. Basmati PNR346, BR28, Neimat and Sarwati showed only nonlinear sensitivity and thus unpredictable fluctuation. Seventeen genotypes indicated average stability over the environments. The AMMI analysis identified Badshabhog, Basmati Tapl-90, Bhog ganjia, BR38, Elai, Jata katari and Radhuni pagal as most stable genotypes over the environment series. It also advocated three comparatively stable environments for all the genotypes.
19819848	Ac/Ds insertion mutation was thought to be one of the powerful tools for identifying gene function in rice. In this study, the rice mutant with pale-green leaves was isolated from the population of Ds-T-DNA and Ac-T-DNA transgenic homozygote in a japonica rice variety Zhonghua 11. The leaves of the mutant turned to be pale-green at three-leaf stage. This mutant was capable of growing slowly and maturing under low-light conditions, but, rapidly died under natural light conditions. The analysis of the photosynthetic activity characteristics by measuring chlorophyll fluorescence in vivo suggested that the mutant was a typical photo-inhibitory mutant. Genetic analysis demonstrated that the mutation was the recessive one resulted from Ds insertion.
19819927	Oryza meridionalis Ng. is a wild relative of Oryza sativa L. found throughout northern Australia where temperatures regularly exceed 35 degrees C in the monsoon growing season. Heat tolerance in O. meridionalis was established by comparing leaf elongation and photosynthetic rates at 45 degrees C with plants maintained at 27 degrees C. By comparison with O. sativa ssp. japonica cv. Amaroo, O. meridionalis was heat tolerant. Elongation rates of the third leaf of O. meridionalis declined by 47% over 24 h at 45 degrees C compared with a 91% decrease for O. sativa. Net photosynthesis was significantly higher in O. sativa at 27 degrees C whereas the two species had the same assimilation rates at 45 degrees C. The leaf proteome and expression levels of individual heat-responsive genes provided insight into the heat response of O. meridionalis. After 24 h of heat exposure, many enzymes involved in the Calvin Cycle were more abundant, while mRNA of their genes generally decreased. Ferredoxin-NADP(H) oxidoreductase, a key enzyme in photosynthetic electron transport had both reduced abundance and gene expression, suggesting light reactions were highly susceptible to heat stress. Rubisco activase was strongly up-regulated after 24 h of heat, with the large isoform having the largest relative increase in protein abundance and a significant increase in gene expression. The protective proteins Cpn60, Hsp90, and Hsp70 all increased in both protein abundance and gene expression. A thiamine biosynthesis protein (THI1), previously shown to act protectively against stress, increased in abundance during heat, even as thiamine levels fell in O. meridionalis.
19820052	An experiment was conducted to compare different dietary vegetable sources of starch and protein on the coefficient of apparent total tract digestibility (CATTD) of energy and nutrients and performance of piglets from 29 to 60 d of age. The experiment was completely randomized with 6 treatments arranged factorially with 3 sources of starch (cooked-flaked corn, cooked-flaked rice, and pea starch) and 2 sources of protein [soy protein concentrate (SPC) and pea protein concentrate (PPC)]. The pea starch and the PPC used were obtained by dehulling and grinding pea seeds to a mean particle size of 30 microm. Each treatment was replicated 6 times (6 pigs per pen). For the entire experiment, piglets fed cooked rice had greater ADG than piglets fed pea starch with piglets fed cooked corn being intermediate (471, 403, and 430 g/d, respectively; P < 0.05). Protein source did not have any effect on piglet performance. The CATTD of DM, OM, and GE were greater (P < 0.05) for diets based on cooked rice than diets based on cooked corn with diets based on pea starch being intermediate. Crude protein digestibility was not affected by source of starch but was greater for the diets based on SPC than for diets based on PPC (0.836 vs. 0.821; P < 0.01). Protein source did not affect the digestibility of any of the other dietary components. It is concluded that cooked rice is an energy source of choice in diets for young pigs. The inclusion of PPC in the diet reduced protein digestibility but had no effects on energy digestibility or piglet performance. Therefore, the finely ground starch and protein fractions of peas can be used in substitution of cooked corn or SPC, respectively, in diets for young pigs.
19820190	Floral organ identity and meristem determinacy in plants are controlled by combinations of activities mediated by MADS box genes. AGAMOUS-LIKE6 (AGL6)-like genes are MADS box genes expressed in floral tissues, but their biological functions are mostly unknown. Here, we describe an AGL6-like gene in rice (Oryza sativa), MOSAIC FLORAL ORGANS1 (MFO1/MADS6), that regulates floral organ identity and floral meristem determinacy. In the flower of mfo1 mutants, the identities of palea and lodicule are disturbed, and mosaic organs were observed. Furthermore, the determinacy of the floral meristem was lost, and extra carpels or spikelets developed in mfo1 florets. The expression patterns of floral MADS box genes were disturbed in the mutant florets. Suppression of another rice AGL6-like gene, MADS17, caused no morphological abnormalities in the wild-type background, but it enhanced the phenotype in the mfo1 background, indicating that MADS17 has a minor but redundant function with that of MFO1. Whereas single mutants in either MFO1 or the SEPALLATA-like gene LHS1 showed moderate phenotypes, the mfo1 lhs1 double mutant showed a severe phenotype, including the loss of spikelet meristem determinacy. We propose that rice AGL6-like genes help to control floral organ identity and the establishment and determinacy of the floral meristem redundantly with LHS1.
19820307	Histone deacetylases (HDACs) modulate chromatin structure and transcription. Previously, we have shown that transgenic overexpression of OsHDAC1 gene alters the seedling root growth. In the current report, we have identified a group of genes that are transcriptionally repressed in the OsHDAC1 overexpressors (OsHDAC1(OE)) by performing a global profiling of root expressed genes. The OsNAC6 gene, a member of NAC family, was identified as a key component of the OsHDAC1 regulon and found to be repressed in OsHDAC1(OE). The root growth of OsNAC6 knock-out (OsNAC6(KO)) seedlings was observed to be similar to that of the OsHDAC1(OE) seedlings. Conversely, the root growth of the OsNAC6 overexpressors (OsNAC6(OE)) was similar to that of the OsHDAC1 knock-out (OsHDAC1(KO)) seedlings. We further demonstrated that OsHDAC1 interact with the OsNAC6 gene promoter at a epigenetic level by deacetylating K9, K14 and K18 on H3 and K5, K12 and K16 on H4. Overall, our results suggest that OsHDAC1 represses the OsNAC6 gene expression, which is primarily responsible for the alteration of root growth of rice seedlings.
19820313	In plants, phototropins 1 (phot1) and 2 (phot2) mediate chloroplast movement to blue light (BL). A recent report showed that phototropins (phot) are required for the expression of chloroplast genes in rice. The light-induced responses of phot1a rice mutants result in H(2)O(2)-mediated damage to chloroplast photosystems, indicating that phot-regulated responses might be associated with the other photoreceptor, such as cryptochrome (cry) BL receptor. This suggests diversification and specialization of photoreceptor signaling in plants.
19820316	The grass family, Poaceae, is one of the most successful families among angiosperms. Although it has long been suggested that the chloroplast genomes of the Poaceae have undergone an elevated evolutionary rate compared to other angiosperms, little was known about the details of this phenomenon. By using chloroplast genome data from 31 seed plants species, we recently showed that episodic rate acceleration occurred in the common ancestral branch of the core Poaceae (a clade formed by rice Oryza sativa, wheat Triticum aestivum, maize Zea mays and their allies) accompanied by elevated non-synonymous/synonymous rate ratio, while the rate and the non-synonymous/synonymous rate ratio reverted to the low level typical of most monocot species in the terminal branches. It was further shown that positive selection or adaptive evolution operated in several chloroplast proteins during the evolution of ancestral grasses, and the amino acid sites which putatively experienced positive selection have been identified. These findings illustrate the importance of future works of structural biological research of chloroplasts to understand the background of the evolution of the successful group, Poaceae.
19820317	Nevertheless both plants are taxonomically quite distinct, momilactone A and B have been found only in rice and the moss, Hypnum plumaeforme which often forms large pure colonies. But biological meanings of momilactone A and B in H. plumaeforme is unknown. UV-irradiation induced a 15- and 16-fold increase in the secretion level of momilactone A and B, respectively, by H. plumaeforme into the growth medium. Jasmonic acid and the protein phosphatase inhibitor, cantharidin, also increased the momilactone A and B secretion levels by 12- to 15-fold. Cantharidin acts as an elicitor, jasmonic acid is an important signaling molecule regulating inducible defense genes against the pathogen infections. Therefore, elicitor and/or pathogen attacks may increase the secretion of momilactone A and B. As momilactone A and B are phytoalexic and allelopathic, the increasing secretion of momilactone A and B may be associated with the activation of the defense responses of H. plumaeforme in the rhizosphere where plants must compete with invading root systems of neighboring plants and prevent from bacteria and fungi infections. Momilactone A and B may be able to prevent H. plumaeforme from pathogen infections and help competition with neighboring plants resulting in the formation of pure colonies.
19820319	Drought is a serious threat to the sustainability of rice yields in rainfed agriculture. In particular, exposure to drought conditions during the stage of panicle development of a rice plant results in a delayed flowering time, reduced number of spikelets and poor grain filling. In our recent report, we functionally characterized the rice AP37 gene for drought tolerance during the vegetative and reproductive growth. Transgenic overexpression of the AP37 with the OsCc1 promoter in rice increased the tolerance to drought, high salinity and low temperature at the vegetative stage. The transgenic plants OsCc1:AP37 also showed significantly enhanced drought tolerance at the reproductive stage, as evidenced by the increase in grain yield by 16-57% over controls under severe field drought conditions. Thus, our results suggest that the AP37 gene has the potential to improve drought tolerance without causing undesirable growth phenotypes.
19820348	The hypersensitive response (HR) is a form of programmed cell death (PCD) commonly associated with the immune response in plants. HR cell death is often characterized by DNA fragmentation, loss of plasma membrane integrity, protein degradation and typical morphological changes such as plasma membrane shrinkage and nuclear condensation. Initiation of HR cell death requires de novo protein synthesis, suggesting that HR cell death induction involves a transcriptional network regulated by a key factor. We recently identified the OsNAC4 gene, which encodes a plant-specific transcription factor that exhibited rapid but transient transcriptional activation during the early stages of HR cell death. Overexpression of OsNAC4 in rice plants induced cell death accompanied by all characteristics of HR cell death: DNA fragmentation, loss of plasma membrane integrity, and protein degradation. In OsNAC4 RNAi knock-down lines exposed to an avirulent bacterial strain, the cellular response was characterized by a marked decrease in HR cell death compared to wild-type rice cells. Gene expression profiling, which compared rice cells and OsNAC4 knock-down transformants using a rice cDNA microarray, demonstrated that OsNAC4 controls the transcription of at least 139 genes including OsHSP90, involved in loss of plasma membrane integrity, and IREN, which encodes novel plant nuclease involved in cleavage of nuclear DNA. Here we report that although OsNAC4 overexpression caused rapid protein degradation during HR cell death, neither IREN nor OsHSP90 were involved. Thus, three important processes that accompany HR cell death are regulated by independent signaling pathways that are collectively induced by OsNAC4.
19822337	It is commonly accepted that sialic acids do not exist in plants. However, putative gene homologs of animal sialyltransferases and CMP-sialic acid transporters have been detected in the genomes of some plants. To elucidate the physiological functions of these genes, we cloned 2 cDNAs from Oryza sativa (Japanese rice), each of which encodes a CMP-sialic acid transporter-like protein designated as OsCSTLP1 and OsCSTLP2. To examine the CMP-sialic acid transporter activity of OsCSTLP1 and OsCSTLP2, we introduced their expression vectors into CMP-sialic acid transporter activity-deficient Lec2 cells. Transfection with OsCSTLP1 resulted in recovery of the deficit phenotype of Lec2 cells, but transfection with OsCSTLP2 did not. We also performed an in vitro nucleotide sugar transport assay using a yeast expression system. Among the nucleotide sugars examined, the OsCSTLP1-containing yeast microsomal membrane vesicles specifically incorporated CMP-sialic acid, indicating that OsCSTLP1 has CMP-sialic acid transporter activity. On the other hand, OsCSTLP2 did not exhibit any nucleotide sugar transporter activity. T-DNA insertion lines of Arabidopsis thaliana targeting the homologs of the OsCSTLP1 and OsCSTLP2 genes exhibited a lethal phenotype, suggesting that these proteins play important roles in plant development and may transport important nucleotide sugars such as CMP-Kdo in physiological conditions.
19822730	The race-specific resistance gene Pi-ta has been effectively used to control blast disease, one of the most destructive plant diseases worldwide. A single amino acid change at the 918 position of the Pi-ta protein was known to determine resistance specificity. To understand the evolutionary dynamics present, we examined sequences of the Pi-ta locus and its flanking regions in 159 accessions composed of seven AA genome Oryza species: O. sativa, O. rufipogon, O. nivara, O. meridionalis, O. glaberrima, O. barthii, and O. glumaepatula. A 3364-bp fragment encoding a predicted transposon was found in the proximity of the Pi-ta promoter region associated with the resistance phenotype. Haplotype network analysis with 33 newly identified Pi-ta haplotypes and 18 newly identified Pi-ta protein variants demonstrated the evolutionary relationships of Pi-ta haplotypes between O. sativa and O. rufipogon. In O. rufipogon, the recent directional selection was found in the Pi-ta region, while significant deviation from neutral evolution was not found in all O. sativa groups. Results of sequence variation in flanking regions around Pi-ta in O. sativa suggest that the size of the resistant Pi-ta introgressed block was at least 5.4 Mb in all elite resistant cultivars but not in the cultivars without Pi-ta. These findings demonstrate that the Pi-ta region with transposon and additional plant modifiers has evolved under an extensive selection pressure during crop breeding.
19822732	Flowering time is a major adaptive trait in plants and an important selection criterion for crop species. In maize, however, little is known about its molecular basis. In this study, we report the fine mapping and characterization of a major quantitative trait locus located on maize chromosome 10, which regulates flowering time through photoperiod sensitivity. This study was performed in near-isogenic material derived from a cross between the day-neutral European flint inbred line FV286 and the tropical short-day inbred line FV331. Recombinant individuals were identified among a large segregating population and their progenies were scored for flowering time. Combined genotypic characterization led to delimit the QTL to an interval of 170 kb and highlighted an unbalanced recombination pattern. Two bacterial artificial chromosomes (BACs) covering the region were analyzed to identify putative candidate genes, and synteny with rice, sorghum, and brachypodium was investigated. A gene encoding a CCT domain protein homologous to the rice Ghd7 heading date regulator was identified, but its causative role was not demonstrated and deserves further analyses. Finally, an association study showed a strong level of linkage disequilibrium over the region and highlighted haplotypes that could provide useful information for the exploitation of genetic resources and marker-assisted selection in maize.
19823676	Endomyocardial Fibrosis (EMF) -is a chronic inflammatory disease of the heart with related pathology to that of late stage Chaga's disease. Indeed, both diseases are thought to result from auto-immune responses against myocardial tissue. As is the case that molecular mimicry between the acidic termini of Trypanosoma cruzi ribosomal P0, P1 and P2beta (or simply TcP0, TcP1, and TcP2beta) proteins and myocardial tissue causes Chaga's disease, excessive exposure to certain infections, toxins including cassava ones, allergy and malnutrition has been suggested as the possible cause for EMF. Recent studies have defined the proteomic characteristics of the T. cruzi ribosomal P protein-C-termini involved in mediating auto-immunity against Beta1-adrenergic receptors of the heart in Chaga's disease. This study aimed to investigate the similarity of C-termini of TcP0/TcP2beta to sequences and molecules of several plants, microbial, viral and chemical elements- most prior thought to be possible causative agents for EMF. Comparative Sequence alignments and phylogeny using the BLAST-P tool at the Swiss Institute of Biotechnology (SIB) revealed homologs of C-termini of TcP0 and TcP2beta among related proteins from several eukaryotes including the animals (Homo sapiens, C. elegans, D. melanogaster), plants (Arabidopsis thaliana, Zea mays, Glycina Max, Oryza sativa, Rhizopus oryzae) and protozoa (P. falciparum, T. gondii, Leishmania spp).The chemical formulae of the two T.cruzi ribosomal protein C-terminal peptides were found to be C(61)H(83)N(13)O(26)S(1)and C(64)H(87)N(13)O(28)S(1) respectively by Protparam. Both peptides are heavily negatively charged. Constitutively, both auto-antigens predominantly contain Asparagine (D), Glycine (G) and Phenylamine (F), with a balanced Leucine (L) and Methionine (M) percent composition of 7.7%. The afore going composition, found to be non-homologous to all molecules of chemical species in the databases searched, suggests the possible role of a metabolic pathway in the pathogenesis of EMF if aligned with our "molecular mimicry" hypothesis. Our findings provide a "window" to suggest that cross reactivity of antibodies against C-terminal sequences of several animal, plant and protozoal ribosomal P proteins with heart tissue may mediate EMF in a similar manner as C- termini of T. cruzi do for Chaga's disease.
19823935	Seeds acquire primary dormancy during their development and the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) is known to play a role in inducing the dormancy. qSD12 is a major seed dormancy quantitative trait locus (QTL) identified from weedy rice. This research was conducted to identify qSD12 candidate genes, isolate the candidates from weedy rice, and determine the relation of the dormancy gene to ABA. A fine mapping experiment, followed by marker-assisted progeny testing for selected recombinants, narrowed down qSD12 to a genomic region of <75 kb, where there are nine predicted genes including a cluster of six transposon/retrotransposon protein genes and three putative (a PIL5, a hypothetic protein, and a bHLH transcription factor) genes based on the annotated Nipponbare genome sequence. The PIL5 and bHLH genes are more likely to be the QTL candidate genes. A bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library equivalent to 8-9 times of the haploid genome size was constructed for the weedy rice. One of the two BAC contigs developed from the library covers the PIL5 to bHLH interval. A pair of lines different only in the QTL-containing region of <200 kb was developed as isogenic lines for the qSD12 dormancy and non-dormancy alleles. The dormant line accumulated much higher ABA in 10-day developing seeds than the non-dormant line. In the QTL-containing region there is no predicted gene that has been assigned to ABA biosynthetic or metabolic pathways. Thus, it is concluded that the qSD12 underlying gene promotes ABA accumulation in early developing seeds to induce primary seed dormancy.
19824396	The objectives of the present study were isolation, identification and characterization of xylanase producing fungi, optimization of medium composition and cultural conditions for xylanase enzyme production using cheaper sources. The fungal strains were isolated from garden soil by serial dilution technique and Aspergillus niger was identified and isolated in pure form. In conformation screening by congo red test, based on the reddish zone of enzyme activity formation in oat spelt xylan agar plates, A. niger was selected and optimized for xylanase enzyme production in solid state fermentation using cheaper sources like wheat bran, rice bran, soya bran, ragi bran and dust. Maximum enzyme activity was observed in wheat bran (9.87 U/ml). The use of wheat bran as a major carbon source is particularly valuable because oat spelt xylan or birch wood xylan are more expensive. The effects of time course, incubation substrate, inoculum size, moisturizing agent, moisture content, temperature and volume of fermentation medium on the production of xylanase were studied. The maximum xylanase production (12.65 U/ml) was observed at optimized condition, incubation temperature of 28 degrees C after 6 days of incubation period while minimum production (9.38 U/ml) at unoptimized condition. The maximum production of enzyme was found to be in wheat bran when the volume of fermentation medium was kept as 10 g/250 ml conical flasks, with mineral solution as moisturizing agent and moisture ratio 1:0.7. Thus the present study proved that the fungal strain A. niger used is highly potential and useful for xylanase production.
19824543	We studied pollen fertility, seed set and cytogenetic characteristics of restorer lines and F1 hybrids of autotetraploid rice. T4002, T4063, T461A x T4002 and T461A x T4063 showed significantly higher pollen fertility and seed set than T4132 and T461A x T4132. Meiotic pairing configurations of T4002, T4063, T4132, T461A x T4002, T461A x T4063 and T461A x T4132 were 0.051 + 19.96II (9.89 rod + 10.07 ring) + 0.01III + + 2.00IV, 0.11I + 19.17II (8.90 rod + 10.37 ring) + 0.09III + 2.26IV + 0.01VI, 1.34I + 9.46II (4.50 rod + 4.96 ring) + 0.80III + 6.02IV + 0.09VI + 0.09VIII, 0.02I + 14.36II (6.44 rod + 7.91 ring) + 0.01III + 4.80IV + 0.01VIII, 0.06I + 17.67II (11.01 rod + 6.67 ring) + 0.06III + 3.10IV + 0.01VI and 1.11I + 11.31II (5.80 rod + 5.51 ring) + 0.41III + 5.63IV + 0.03VI + 0.03VIII, respectively. Configuration 16II + 4IV and 12II + 6IV occurred in the highest frequency among the autotetraploid restorers and hybrids. Meiotic chromosome behaviors were less abnormal in the tetraploids with high seed set than those with low seed set. The hybrids had fewer frequencies of bivalents, univalents, trivalents and multivalents than the restorers, but higher frequency of quatrivalents than the restorers at MI. The frequency of univalents at MI had the most impact on pollen fertility and seed set, i.e., pollen fertility decreased with the increase of univalents. The secondary impact factors were trivalents and multivalents, and bivalents and quatrivalents had no effect on pollen fertility and seed set. The correlative relationship between pollen fertility and cytogenetic behaviors could be utilized to improve seed set in autotetraploidy breeding.
19825006	Isoflavone reductase is an enzyme involved in isoflavonoid biosynthesis in plants. However, rice isoflavone reductase-like gene (OsIRL, accession no. AY071920) has not been unraveled so far. Here, we have characterized its behavior in response to oxidizing agents. Using Northern and Western blot analyses, the OsIRL gene and protein were shown to be down-regulated in young seedling roots treated with reduced glutathione (GSH) and diphenyleneiodonium (DPI), known quenchers of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The OsIRL transcript level in rice suspension-cultured cells was also found to be induced by oxidants such as hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)), ferric chloride (FeCl(3)), methyl viologen (MV) and glucose/glucose oxidase (G/GO), but down-regulated when co-treated with GSH. Furthermore, to investigate whether overexpression of OsIRL in transgenic rice plants promotes resistance to ROS, we generated transgenic rice lines overexpressing the OsIRL gene under an abscisic acid (ABA) inducible promoter. Results showed that the OsIRL transgenic rice line activated by ABA treatment was tolerant against MV and G/GO-induced stress in rice leave and suspension-cultured cells. Our results strongly suggest the involvement of OsIRL in homeostasis of ROS.
19825016	To expand our understanding of cell death in plant defense responses, we isolated a novel rice (Oryza sativa) spotted leaf mutant (spl28) that displays a lesion mimic phenotype in the absence of pathogen attack through treatment of Hwacheongbyeo (an elite Korean japonica cultivar) with N-methyl-N-nitrosourea (MNU). Early stage development of the spl28 mutant was normal. However, after flowering, spl28 mutants exhibited a significant decrease in chlorophyll content, soluble protein content, and photosystem II efficiency, and high concentrations of reactive oxygen species (ROS), phytoalexin, callose, and autofluorescent phenolic compounds that localized in or around the lesions. The spl28 mutant also exhibited significantly enhanced resistance to rice blast and bacterial blight. Using a map-based cloning approach, we determined that SPL28 encodes a clathrin-associated adaptor protein complex 1, medium subunit micro 1 (AP1M1), which is involved in the post-Golgi trafficking pathway. A green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein of SPL28 (SPL28::GFP) localized to the Golgi apparatus, and expression of SPL28 complemented the membrane trafficking defect of apm1-1 Delta yeast mutants. SPL28 was ubiquitously expressed and contained a highly conserved adaptor complex medium subunit (ACMS) family domain. SPL28 appears to be involved in the regulation of vesicular trafficking, and SPL28 dysfunction causes the formation of hypersensitive response (HR)-like lesions, leading to the initiation of leaf senescence.
19825183	In some genomic applications it is necessary to design large numbers of PCR primers in exons flanking one or several introns on the basis of orthologous gene sequences in related species. The primer pairs designed by this target gene approach are called "intron-flanking primers" or because they are located in exonic sequences which are usually conserved between related species, "conserved primers". They are useful for large-scale single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) discovery and marker development, especially in species, such as wheat, for which a large number of ESTs are available but for which genome sequences and intron/exon boundaries are not available. To date, no suitable high-throughput tool is available for this purpose. We have developed, the ConservedPrimers 2.0 pipeline, for designing intron-flanking primers for large-scale SNP discovery and marker development, and demonstrated its utility in wheat. This tool uses non-redundant wheat EST sequences, such as wheat contigs and singleton ESTs, and related genomic sequences, such as those of rice, as inputs. It aligns the ESTs to the genomic sequences to identify unique colinear exon blocks and predicts intron lengths. Intron-flanking primers are then designed based on the intron/exon information using the Primer3 core program or BatchPrimer3. Finally, a tab-delimited file containing intron-flanking primer pair sequences and their primer properties is generated for primer ordering and their PCR applications. Using this tool, 1,922 bin-mapped wheat ESTs (31.8% of the 6,045 in total) were found to have unique colinear exon blocks suitable for primer design and 1,821 primer pairs were designed from these single- or low-copy genes for PCR amplification and SNP discovery. With these primers and subsequently designed genome-specific primers, a total of 1,527 loci were found to contain one or more genome-specific SNPs. The ConservedPrimers 2.0 pipeline for designing intron-flanking primers was developed and its utility demonstrated. The tool can be used for SNP discovery, genetic variation assays and marker development for any target genome that has abundant ESTs and a related reference genome that has been fully sequenced. The ConservedPrimers 2.0 pipeline has been implemented as a command-line tool as well as a web application. Both versions are freely available at http://wheat.pw.usda.gov/demos/ConservedPrimers/.
19825206	An investigation was carried out to determine whether there were significant changes in the intake of dietary fibre (NSP) and phytate of adult men and women in the UK from 1982 (aged 36 years) to 1999 (aged 53 years). The 1253 subjects studied were members of the Medical Research Council National Survey of Health and Development; a longitudinal study of a nationally representative cohort of births in 1946. Food intake was recorded in a 5 d diary at age 36 years in 1982, 43 years in 1989 and 53 years in 1999. The food composition database was amended with revised values for phytate. Outcome measures were mean intakes of total NSP and phytate by year, sex and food source. There were significant changes in total NSP and phytate intake over the three time points. Intakes of NSP rose significantly between 1982 and 1999 for men and women but phytate intakes rose significantly only between 1989 and 1999. Cereal foods were the most important source of both NSP and phytate. Between 1989 and 1999 there was a significant increase in the contribution from pasta, rice and other grains. The present study shows that an increase in dietary fibre that is in accordance with dietary guidelines would almost inevitably be accompanied by a rise in phytate. The increased dietary phytate is discussed in relation to its recognised inhibition of mineral absorption and its merits with regard to protection against some cancers and other diseases of an ageing population.
19825540	The sequence of Gid1 (a gene for a gibberellin (GA) receptor from rice) was used to identify a putative orthologue from barley. This was expressed in E. coli, and produced a protein that was able to bind GA in vitro with both structural specificity and saturability. Its potential role in GA responses was investigated using barley mutants with reduced GA sensitivity (gse1 mutants). Sixteen different gse1 mutants each carried a unique nucleotide substitution in this sequence. In all but one case, these changes resulted in single amino acid substitutions, and, for the remaining mutant, a substitution in the 5' untranslated region of the mRNA is proposed to interfere with translation initiation. There was perfect linkage in segregating populations between new mutant alleles and the gse1 phenotype, leading to the conclusion that the putative GID1 GA receptor sequence in barley corresponds to the Gse1 locus. Determination of endogenous GA contents in one of the mutants revealed enhanced accumulation of bioactive GA(1), and a deficit of C(20) GA precursors. All of the gse1 mutants had reduced sensitivity to exogenous GA(3), and to AC94377 (a GA analogue) at concentrations that are normally 'saturating', but, at much higher concentrations, there was often a considerable response. The comparison between barley and rice mutants reveals interesting differences between these two cereal species in GA hormonal physiology.
19825552	The rice Xa21 gene, which confers resistance to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), encodes a receptor-like kinase. Few components involved in transducing the Xa21-mediated defense response have yet been identified. Here, we report that XA21 binds to a WRKY transcription factor, called OsWRKY62. The OsWRKY62 gene encodes two splice variants (OsWRKY62.1 and OsWRKY62.2). OsWRKY62.1:smGFP2 and OsWRKY62.2:smGFP2 fusion proteins partially localize to the nucleus. Transgenic plants overexpressing OsWRKY62.1 are compromised in basal defense and Xa21-mediated resistance to Xoo. Furthermore, overexpression of OsWRKY62.1 suppresses the activation of defense-related genes. These results imply that OsWRKY62 functions as a negative regulator of innate immunity in rice, and serves as a critical mediator of both basal and race-specific defense responses.
19825558	Gibberellins (GAs) form a group of important plant tetracyclic diterpenoid hormones that are involved in many aspects of plant growth and development. Emerging evidence implicates that GAs also play roles in stress responses. However, the role of GAs in biotic stress is largely unknown. Here, we report that knockout or overexpression of the Elongated uppermost internode (Eui) gene encoding a GA deactivating enzyme compromises or increases, respectively, disease resistance to bacterial blight (Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oyrzae) and rice blast (Magnaporthe oryzae). Exogenous application of GA(3) and the inhibitor of GA synthesis (uniconazol) could increase disease susceptibility and resistance, respectively, to bacterial blight. Similarly, uniconazol restored disease resistance of the eui mutant and GA(3) decreased disease resistance of the Eui overexpressors to bacterial blight. Therefore, the change of resistance attributes to GA levels. In consistency with this, the GA metabolism genes OsGA20ox2 and OsGA2ox1 were down-regulated during pathogen challenge. We also found that PR1a induction was enhanced but the SA level was decreased in the Eui overexpressor, while the JA level was reduced in the eui mutant. Together, our current study indicates that GAs play a negative role in rice basal disease resistance, with EUI as a positive modulator through regulating the level of bioactive GAs.
19825559	Accumulating information indicates that plant disease resistance signaling pathways frequently interact with other pathways regulating developmental processes or abiotic stress responses. However, the molecular mechanisms of these types of crosstalk remain poorly understood in most cases. Here we report that OsWRKY13, an activator of rice resistance to both bacterial and fungal pathogens, appears to function as a convergent point for crosstalk among the pathogen-induced salicylate-dependent defense pathway and five other physiologic pathways. Genome-wide analysis of the expression profiles of OsWRKY13-overexpressing lines suggests that OsWRKY13 directly or indirectly regulates the expression of more than 500 genes that are potentially involved in different physiologic processes according to the classification of the Gene Ontology database. By comparing the expression patterns of genes functioning in known pathways or cellular processes of pathogen infection and the phenotypes between OsWRKY13-overexpressing and wild-type plants, our data suggest that OsWRKY13 is also a regulator of other physiologic processes during pathogen infection. The OsWRKY13-associated disease resistance pathway synergistically interacts via OsWRKY13 with the glutathione/glutaredoxin system and flavonoid biosynthesis pathway to monitor redox homeostasis and to putatively enhance the biosynthesis of antimicrobial flavonoid phytoalexins, respectively, in OsWRKY13-overexpressing lines. Meanwhile, the OsWRKY13-associated disease resistance pathway appears to interact antagonistically with the SNAC1-mediated abiotic stress defense pathway, jasmonic acid signaling pathway, and terpenoid metabolism pathway via OsWRKY13 to suppress salt and cold defense responses as well as to putatively retard rice growth and development.
19825560	Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) in plants confers lasting broad-spectrum resistance to pathogens and requires the phytohormone salicylic acid (SA). Arabidopsis NPR1/NIM1 is a key regulator of the SAR response. Studies attempting to reveal the function of NPR1 and how it mediates SA signaling have led to isolation of two classes of proteins that interact with NPR1: the first class includes rice NRR, Arabidopsis NIMIN1, NIMIN2, and NIMIN3, and tobacco NIMIN2-like proteins; the second class belongs to TGA transcription factors. We have previously shown that overexpression of NRR in rice suppresses both basal and Xa21-mediated resistance. In order to test whether NRR affects SA-induced, NPR1-mediated SAR, we have transformed Arabidopsis with the rice NRR gene and tested its effects on the defense response. Expression of NRR in Arabidopsis results in suppression of PR gene induction by SAR inducer and resistance to pathogens. These phenotypes are even more severe than those of the npr1-1 mutant. The ability of NRR to suppress PR gene induction and disease resistance is correlated with its ability to bind to NPR1 because two point mutations in NRR, which reduce NPR1 binding, fail to suppress NPR1. In contrast, wild-type and a mutant NRR, which still binds to NPR1 strongly, retain the ability to suppress the SAR response. Replacing the C-terminal 79 amino acids of NRR with the VP16 activation domain turns the fusion protein into a transcriptional co-activator. These results indicate that NRR binds to NPR1 in vivo in a protein complex to inhibit transcriptional activation of PR genes and that NRR contains a transcription repression domain for active repression.
19825565	As a complex wall system in flowering plants, the pollen outer wall mainly contains aliphatic sporopollenin; however, the mechanism for synthesizing these lipidic precursors during pollen development remains less well understood. Here, we report on the function of the rice tapetum-expressing TDR (Tapetum Degeneration Retardation) gene in aliphatic metabolism and its regulatory role during rice pollen development. The observations of transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analyses suggested that pollen wall formation was significantly altered in the tdr mutant. The contents of aliphatic compositions of anther were greatly changed in the tdr mutant revealed by GC-MS (gas chromatography-mass spectrometry) testing, particularly less accumulated in fatty acids, primary alcohols, alkanes and alkenes, and an abnormal increase in secondary alcohols with carbon lengths from C29 to C35 in tdr. Microarray data revealed that a group of genes putatively involved in lipid transport and metabolism were significantly altered in the tdr mutant, indicating the critical role of TDR in the formation of the pollen wall. Also, a wide range of genes (236 in total-154 up-regulated and 82 down-regulated) exhibited statistically significant expressional differences between wild-type and tdr. In addition to its function in promoting tapetum PCD, TDR possibly plays crucial regulatory roles in several basic biological processes during rice pollen development.
19825575	We describe a call for an international coordinated effort in rice functional genomics in the form of a project named RICE2020. The mission of the project will be: to determine the function of every gene in the rice genome by the year 2020, to identify functional diversity of alleles for agriculturally useful genes from the primary gene pool of rice, and to apply the findings of functional genomics research to rice genetic improvement.
19825576	Heterosis, or hybrid vigor, refers to the phenomenon in which hybrid progeny of two inbred varieties exhibits enhanced growth or agronomic performance. Although a century-long history of research has generated several hypotheses regarding the genetic basis of heterosis, the molecular mechanisms underlying heterosis and heterotic gene expression remain elusive. Here, we report a genome-wide gene expression analysis of two heterotic crosses in rice, taking advantage of its fully sequenced genomes. Approximately 7-9% of the genes were differentially expressed in the seedling shoots from two sets of heterotic crosses, including many transcription factor genes, and exhibited multiple modes of gene action. Comparison of the putative promoter regions of the ortholog genes between inbred parents revealed extensive sequence variation, particularly small insertions/deletions (INDELs), many of which result in the formation/disruption of putative cis-regulatory elements. Together, these results suggest that a combinatorial interplay between expression of transcription factors and polymorphic promoter cis-regulatory elements in the hybrids is one plausible molecular mechanism underlying heterotic gene action and thus heterosis in rice.
19825577	Receptor-like cytoplasmic kinases (RLCKs) in plants belong to the super family of receptor-like kinases (RLKs). These proteins show homology to RLKs in kinase domain but lack the transmembrane domain. Some of the functionally characterized RLCKs from plants have been shown to play roles in development and stress responses. Previously, 149 and 187 RLCK encoding genes were identified from Arabidopsis and rice, respectively. By using HMM-based domain structure and phylogenetic relationships, we have identified 379 OsRLCKs from rice. OsRLCKs are distributed on all 12 chromosomes of rice and some members are located on duplicated chromosomal segments. Several OsRLCKs probably also undergo alternative splicing, some having evidence only in the form of gene models. To understand their possible functions, expression patterns during landmark stages of vegetative and reproductive development as well as abiotic and biotic stress using microarray and MPSS-based data were analyzed. Real-time PCR-based expression profiling for a selected few genes confirmed the outcome of microarray analysis. Differential expression patterns observed for majority of OsRLCKs during development and stress suggest their involvement in diverse functions in rice. Majority of the stress-responsive OsRLCKs were also found to be localized within mapped regions of abiotic stress QTLs. Outcome of this study would help in selecting organ/development stage specific OsRLCK genes/targets for functional validation studies.
19825578	Pollen allergens are among the most abundantly transcribed and translated products in the life history of plants, and particularly grasses. To identify different pollen allergens in rice, putative allergens were identified in the rice genome and their expression characterized using the Affymetrix 57K rice GeneChip microarray. Among the most abundant pollen-specific candidate transcripts were Ory s 1 beta-expansin, Ory s 2, Ory s 7 EF hand, Ory s 11, Ory s 12 profilin A, Ory s 23, glycosyl hydrolase family 28 (polygalacturonase), and FAD binding proteins. Highly expressed pollen proteins are frequently present in multiple copy numbers, sometimes with mirror images located on nearby regions of the opposite DNA strand. Many of these are intronless and inserted as copies that retain nearly exact copies of their regulatory elements. Ory s 23 reflects low variability and high copy number, suggesting recent gene amplification. Some copies contain pseudogenes, which may reflect their origin through activity of retrotransposition; some putative allergenic sequences bear fusion products with repeat sequences of transposable elements (LTRs). The abundance of nearby repetitive sequences, activation of transposable elements, and high production of mRNA transcripts appear to coincide in pollen and may contribute to a syndrome in which highly transcribed proteins may be copied and inserted with streamlined features for translation, including grouping and removal of introns.
19825579	Comparative analyses of the sequence of entire genomes have shown that gene duplications, chromosomal segmental duplications, or even whole genome duplications (WGD) have played prominent roles in the evolution of many eukaryotic species. Here, we used the ancient duplication of a well known transcription factor in maize, encoded by the Opaque-2 (O2) locus, to examine the general features of divergences of chromosomal segmental duplications in a lineage-specific manner. We took advantage of contiguous chromosomal sequence information in rice (Oryza sativa, Nipponbare), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, Btx623), and maize (Zea mays, B73) that were aligned by conserved gene order (synteny). This analysis showed that the maize O2 locus is contained within a 1.25 million base-pair (Mb) segment on chromosome 7, which was duplicated approximately 56 million years ago (mya) before the split of rice and maize 50 mya. The duplicated region on chromosome 1 is only half the size and contains the maize OHP gene, which does not restore the o2 mutation although it encodes a protein with the same DNA and protein binding properties in endosperm. The segmental duplication is not only found in rice, but also in sorghum, which split from maize 11.9 mya. A detailed analysis of the duplicated regions provided examples for complex rearrangements including deletions, duplications, conversions, inversions, and translocations. Furthermore, the rice and sorghum genomes appeared to be more stable than the maize genome, probably because maize underwent allotetraploidization and then diploidization.
19825580	Pollen fertility is a crucial factor for successful pollination and essential for seed formation. Recent studies have suggested that a diverse range of internal and external factors, signaling components and their related pathways are likely involved in pollen fertility. Here, we report a single C2-domain containing protein, OsPBP1, initially identified through cDNA microarray analysis. OsPBP1 is a single copy gene and preferentially expressed in pistil and pollen but down-regulated by pollination. OsPBP1 had a calcium concentration-dependent phospholipid-binding activity and was localized mainly in cytoplasm and nucleus, but translocated onto the plasma membrane in response to an intracellular Ca(2+) increase. Pollen grains of antisense OsPBP1 transgenic lines were largely nonviable, germinated poorly in vitro and of low fertility. OsPBP1 protein was localized in a region peripheral to pollen wall and vesicles of elongating pollen tube, and its repressed expression reduced substantially this association and led to alteration of microfilament polymerization during pollen germination. Taken together, these results indicate that OsPBP1 is a novel functional C2-domain phospholipids-binding protein that is required for pollen fertility likely by regulating Ca(2+) and phospholipid signaling pathways.
19825581	Bacterial blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and fungal blast caused by Magnaporthe grisea result in heavy production losses in rice, a main staple food for approximately 50% of the world's population. Application of host resistance to these pathogens is the most economical and environment-friendly approach to solve this problem. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) controlling quantitative resistance are valuable sources for broad-spectrum and durable disease resistance. Although large numbers of QTLs for bacterial blight and blast resistance have been identified, these sources have not been used effectively in rice improvement because of the complex genetic control of quantitative resistance and because the genes underlying resistance QTLs are unknown. To isolate disease resistance QTLs, we established a candidate gene strategy that integrates linkage map, expression profile, and functional complementation analyses. This strategy has proven to be applicable for identifying the genes underlying minor resistance QTLs in rice-Xoo and rice-M. grisea systems and it may also help to shed light on disease resistance QTLs of other cereals. Our results also suggest that a single minor QTL can be used in rice improvement by modulating the expression of the gene underlying the QTL. Pyramiding two or three minor QTL genes, whose expression can be managed and that function in different defense signal transduction pathways, may allow the breeding of rice cultivars that are highly resistant to bacterial blight and blast.
19825583	Ubiquitin ligases play a central role in determining the specificity of the ubiquitination system by selecting a myriad of appropriate candidate proteins for modification. The U-box is a recently identified, ubiquitin ligase activity-related protein domain that shows greater presence in plants than in other organisms. In this study, we identified 77 putative U-box proteins from the rice genome using a battery of whole genome analysis algorithms. Most of the U-box protein genes are expressed, as supported by the identification of their corresponding expressed sequence tags (ESTs), full-length cDNAs, or massively parallel signature sequencing (MPSS) tags. Using the same algorithms, we identified 61 U-box proteins from the Arabidopsis genome. The rice and Arabidopsis U-box proteins were classified into nine major classes based on their domain compositions. Comparison between rice and Arabidopsis U-box proteins indicates that the majority of rice and Arabidopsis U-box proteins have the same domain organizations. The inferred phylogeny established the homology between rice and Arabidopsis U-box/ARM proteins. Cell death assay using the rice protoplast system suggests that one rice U-box gene, OsPUB51, might act as a negative regulator of cell death signaling. In addition, the selected U-box proteins were found to be functional E3 ubiquitin ligases. The identification and analysis of rice U-box proteins hereby at the genomic level will help functionally characterize this class of E3 ubiquitin ligase in the future.
19825584	It has been reported that rice chromosome 4 has eight major heterochromatic knobs within the heterochromatic half and that this organization correlates with chromosomal-level transcriptional activity. To better understand this chromosomal organization, we created a model based on the statistical distribution of various types of gene models to divide chromosome 4 into 17 euchromatic and heterochromatic regions that correspond with the cytological staining. Fluorescence in-situ hybridization (FISH) experiments using a set of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones from chromosome 4 placed all 18 clones in the region predicted by the model. Elevated levels of H3K4 di- and tri-methylation detected by chromatin-immunoprecipitation (ChIP) on chip were correlated with euchromatic regions whereas lower levels of these two modifications were detected in heterochromatic regions. Small RNAs were more abundant in the heterochromatic regions. To validate these findings, H3K4 trimethylation, H3K9 acetylation, H4K12 acetylation, and H3K9 di- and tri-methylation of 19 individual genes were measured by ChIP-PCR. Genes in heterochromatic regions had elevated H3K9 di- and tri-methylation while genes in euchromatic regions had elevated levels of the other three modifications. We also assayed cytosine methylation of these genes using the restriction enzymes McrBC, HapII, and Msp I. This analysis indicated that cytosines of transposable elements and some genes located in heterochromatic regions were methylated while cytosines of the other genes were unmethylated. These results suggest that local transcriptional activity may reflect the organization of the corresponding part of the chromosome. They also indicate that epigenetic regulation plays an important role in correlating chromosomal organization with transcriptional activity.
19825585	A CSSL (chromosome segment substitution line), SG-64, carrying a segment of chromosome 4 from African cultivated rice (CG-14) in the genetic background of var. Wuyujing-7 (japonica), showed a spreading panicle, which was different significantly from that of Wuyujing-7 with an erect compact panicle. The gene controlling a spreading panicle is referred to as Spr3, and is mapped on chromosome 4. To uncover the genetic basis of Spr3, a large F(2) population derived from cross between SG-64 and Wuyujing-7 was constructed for fine mapping of the Spr3 locus. The high-resolution linkage analysis revealed that the Spr3 locus was narrowed down to a 4.6-kb region. The delimited genomic DNA regions of Wuyujing-7 and CG-14 were sequenced and compared. Sequence mutations between Wuyujing-7 and CG-14 were evident and the candidate genes for the locus were predicted. Publicly available databases were searched for homologous cDNA sequences. However, any coding regions or other meaningful sequences for the Spr3 locus were not found within this delimited region. This result suggested that Spr3 is an unknown genetic factor in controlling the outspreading of the primary branches in rice inflorescence. In addition, NIL(Spr3) exhibited seed shattering. The formation of spreading panicle was accompanied by a few undesirable traits and the spreading panicle links with seed shattering suggest that the spreading panicle was likely lost during the domestication and selection for high seed productivity of cultivated rice.
19825586	Despite general observations of non-random genomic distribution of new genes, it is unclear whether or not new genes preferentially occur in certain genomic regions driven by related molecular mechanisms. Using 1.5 Mb of genomic sequences from short arms of chromosome 3 of Oryza glaberrima and O. punctata, we conducted a comparative genomic analysis with the reference O. sativa ssp. japonica genome. We identified a 60-kb segment located in the middle of the subtelomeric region of chromosome 3, which is unique to the species O. sativa. The region contained gene duplicates that occurred in Asian cultivated rice species that diverged from the ancestor of Asian and African cultivated rice one million years ago (MYA). For the 12 genes and one complete retrotransposon identified in this segment in O. sativa ssp. japonica, we searched for their parental genes. The high similarity between duplicated paralogs further supports the recent origination of these genes. We found that this segment was recently generated through multiple independent gene recombination and transposon insertion events. Among the 12 genes, we found that five had chimeric gene structures derived from multiple parental genes. Nine out of the 12 new genes seem to be functional, as suggested by Ka/Ks analysis and the presence of cDNA and/or MPSS data. Furthermore, for the eight transcribed genes, at least two genes could be classified as defense or stress response-related genes. Given these findings, and the fact that subtelomeres are associated with high rates of recombination and transcription, it is likely that subtelomeres may facilitate gene recombination and transposon insertions and serve as hot spots for new gene origination in rice genomes.
19825587	The wide-spread use of microarray technologies to study plant transcriptomes has led to important discoveries and to an accumulation of profiling data covering a wide range of different tissues, developmental stages, perturbations, and genotypes. Querying a large number of microarray experiments can provide insights that cannot be gained by analyzing single experiments. However, such a meta-analysis poses significant challenges with respect to data comparability and normalization, systematic sample annotation, and analysis tools. Genevestigator addresses these issues using a large curated expression database and a set of specifically developed analysis tools that are accessible over the internet. This combination has already proven to be useful in the area of plant research based on a large set of Arabidopsis data (Grennan, 2006). Here, we present the release of the Genevestigator rice and barley gene expression databases that contain quality-controlled and well annotated microarray experiments using ontologies. The databases currently comprise experiments from pathology, plant nutrition, abiotic stress, hormone treatment, genotype, and spatial or temporal analysis, but are expected to cover a broad variety of research areas as more experimental data become available. The transcriptome meta-analysis of the model species rice and barley is expected to deliver results that can be used for functional genomics and biotechnological applications in cereals.
19825588	Glycosyltransferases (GTs; EC 2.4.x.y) constitute a large group of enzymes that form glycosidic bonds through transfer of sugars from activated donor molecules to acceptor molecules. GTs are critical to the biosynthesis of plant cell walls, among other diverse functions. Based on the Carbohydrate-Active enZymes (CAZy) database and sequence similarity searches, we have identified 609 potential GT genes (loci) corresponding to 769 transcripts (gene models) in rice (Oryza sativa), the reference monocotyledonous species. Using domain composition and sequence similarity, these rice GTs were classified into 40 CAZy families plus an additional unknown class. We found that two Pfam domains of unknown function, PF04577 and PF04646, are associated with GT families GT61 and GT31, respectively. To facilitate functional analysis of this important and large gene family, we created a phylogenomic Rice GT Database (http://ricephylogenomics.ucdavis.edu/cellwalls/gt/). Through the database, several classes of functional genomic data, including mutant lines and gene expression data, can be displayed for each rice GT in the context of a phylogenetic tree, allowing for comparative analysis both within and between GT families. Comprehensive digital expression analysis of public gene expression data revealed that most (approximately 80%) rice GTs are expressed. Based on analysis with Inparanoid, we identified 282 'rice-diverged' GTs that lack orthologs in sequenced dicots (Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus tricocarpa, Medicago truncatula, and Ricinus communis). Combining these analyses, we identified 33 rice-diverged GT genes (45 gene models) that are highly expressed in above-ground, vegetative tissues. From the literature and this analysis, 21 of these loci are excellent targets for functional examination toward understanding and manipulating grass cell wall qualities. Study of the remainder may reveal aspects of hormone and protein metabolism that are critical for rice biology. This list of 33 genes and the Rice GT Database will facilitate the study of GTs and cell wall synthesis in rice and other plants.
19825616	The recent genome sequencing of Populus trichocarpa and Vitis vinifera, two models of woody plants, of Sorghum bicolor, a model of monocot using C4 metabolism, and of the moss Physcomitrella patens, together with the availability of photosynthetic organism genomes allows performance of a comparative genomic study with organisms having different ways of life, reproduction modes, biological traits, and physiologies. Thioredoxins (Trxs) are small ubiquitous proteins involved in the reduction of disulfide bridges in a variety of target enzymes present in all sub-cellular compartments and involved in many biochemical reactions. The genes coding for these enzymes have been identified in these newly sequenced genomes and annotated. The gene content, organization and distribution were compared to other photosynthetic organisms, leading to a refined classification. This analysis revealed that higher plants and bryophytes have a more complex family compared to algae and cyanobacteria and to non-photosynthetic organisms, since poplar exhibits 49 genes coding for typical and atypical thioredoxins and thioredoxin reductases, namely one-third more than monocots such as Oryza sativa and S. bicolor. The higher number of Trxs in poplar is partially explained by gene duplication in the Trx m, h, and nucleoredoxin classes. Particular attention was paid to poplar genes with emphasis on Trx-like classes called Clot, thioredoxin-like, thioredoxins of the lilium type and nucleoredoxins, which were not described in depth in previous genomic studies.
19825617	Glutaredoxins (GRXs) are ubiquitous oxidoreductases that play a crucial role in response to oxidative stress by reducing disulfides in various organisms. In planta, three different GRX classes have been identified according to their active site motifs. CPYC and CGFS classes are found in all organisms, whereas the CC-type class is specific for higher land plants. Recently, two Arabidopsis CC-type GRXs, ROXY1 and ROXY2, were shown to exert crucial functions in petal and anther initiation and differentiation. To analyze the function of CC-type GRXs in the distantly related monocots, we isolated and characterized OsROXY1 and OsROXY2-two rice homologs of ROXY1. Both genes are expressed in vegetative and reproductive stages. Although rice flower morphology is distinct from eudicots, OsROXY1/2 floral expression patterns are similar to their Arabidopsis counterparts ROXY1/2. Complementation experiments demonstrate that OsROXY1 and OsROXY2 can fully rescue the roxy1 floral mutant phenotype. Overexpression of OsROXY1, OsROXY2, and ROXY1 in Arabidopsis causes similar vegetative and reproductive plant developmental defects. ROXY1 and its rice homologs thus exert a conserved function during eudicot and monocot flower development. Strikingly, overexpression of these CC-type GRXs also leads to an increased accumulation of hydrogen peroxide levels and hyper-susceptibility to infection from the necrotrophic pathogen Botrytis cinerea, revealing the importance of balanced redox processes in flower organ development and pathogen defence.
19825651	Polycomb group proteins (PcG) play important roles in epigenetic regulation of gene expression. Some core PcG proteins, such as Enhancer of Zeste (E(z)), Suppressor of Zeste (12) (Su(z)12), and Extra Sex Combs (ESC), are conserved in plants. The rice genome contains two E(z)-like genes, OsiEZ1 and OsCLF, two homologs of Su(z)12, OsEMF2a and OsEMF2b, and two ESC-like genes, OsFIE1 and OsFIE2. OsFIE1 is expressed only in endosperm; the maternal copy is expressed while the paternal copy is not active. Other rice PcG genes are expressed in a wide range of tissues and are not imprinted in the endosperm. The two E(z)-like genes appear to have duplicated before the separation of the dicots and monocots; the two homologs of Su(z)12 possibly duplicated during the evolution of the Gramineae and the two ESC-like genes are likely to have duplicated in the ancestor of the grasses. No homologs of the Arabidopsis seed-expressed PcG genes MEA and FIS2 were identified in the rice genome. We have isolated T-DNA insertion lines in the rice homologs of three PcG genes. There is no autonomous endosperm development in these T-DNA insertion lines. One line with a T-DNA insertion in OsEMF2b displays pleiotropic phenotypes including altered flowering time and abnormal flower organs, suggesting important roles in rice development for this gene.
19825653	Arabidopsis VERNALIZATION2 (VRN2), EMBRYONIC FLOWER2 (EMF2), and FERTILIZATION-INDEPENDENT SEED2 (FIS2) are involved in vernalization-mediated flowering, vegetative development, and seed development, respectively. Together with Arabidopsis VEF-L36, they share a VEF domain that is conserved in plants and animals. To investigate the evolution of VEF-domain-containing genes (VEF genes), we analyzed sequences related to VEF genes across land plants. To date, 24 full-length sequences from 11 angiosperm families and 54 partial sequences from another nine families were identified. The majority of the full-length sequences identified share greatest sequence similarity with and possess the same major domain structure as Arabidopsis EMF2. EMF2-like sequences are not only widespread among angiosperms, but are also found in genomic sequences of gymnosperms, lycophyte, and moss. No FIS2- or VEF-L36-like sequences were recovered from plants other than Arabidopsis, including from rice and poplar for which whole genomes have been sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis of the full-length sequences showed a high degree of amino acid sequence conservation in EMF2 homologs of closely related taxa. VRN2 homologs are recovered as a clade nested within the larger EMF2 clade. FIS2 and VEF-L36 are recovered in the VRN2 clade. VRN2 clade may have evolved from an EMF2 duplication event that occurred in the rosids prior to the divergence of the eurosid I and eurosid II lineages. We propose that dynamic changes in genome evolution contribute to the generation of the family of VEF-domain-containing genes. Phylogenetic analysis of the VEF domain alone showed that VEF sequences continue to evolve following EMF2/VRN2 divergence in accordance with species relationship. Existence of EMF2-like sequences in animals and across land plants suggests that a prototype form of EMF2 was present prior to the divergence of the plant and animal lineages. A proposed sequence of events, based on domain organization and occurrence of intermediate sequences throughout angiosperms, could explain VRN2 evolution from an EMF2-like ancestral sequence, possibly following duplication of the ancestral EMF2. Available data further suggest that VEF-L36 and FIS2 were derived from a VRN2-like ancestral sequence. Thus, the presence of VEF-L36 and FIS2 in a genome may ultimately be dependent upon the presence of a VRN2-like sequence.
19825657	Twelve genes of the PIN family in rice were analyzed for gene and protein structures and an evolutionary relationship with reported AtPINs in Arabidopsis. Four members of PIN1 (designated as OsPIN1a-d), one gene paired with AtPIN2 (OsPIN2), three members of PIN5 (OsPIN5a-c), one gene paired with AtPIN8 (OsPIN8), and three monocot-specific PINs (OsPIN9, OsPIN10a, and b) were identified from the phylogenetic analysis. Tissue-specific expression patterns of nine PIN genes among them were investigated using RT-PCR and GUS reporter. The wide variations in the expression domain in different tissues of the PIN genes were observed. In general, PIN genes are up-regulated by exogenous auxin, while different responses of different PIN genes to other hormones were found.
19825658	We expressed the Arabidopsis thaliana histone AtHTA1 in rice under the control of the maize ubiquitin promoter. Transformation efficiencies of rice plants that constitutively expressed AtHTA1 were 28-44% higher than calli containing an empty vector control. Furthermore, co-infection of rice calli with a vector containing AtHTA1 and another vector with the target gene increased transformation by 27-50%. Thus, expression of AtHTA1 either transiently or in stably transformed cells improved rice transformation efficiency.
19825675	Galacturonosyltransferase 1 (GAUT1) is an alpha1,4-D-galacturonosyltransferase that transfers galacturonic acid from uridine 5'-diphosphogalacturonic acid onto the pectic polysaccharide homogalacturonan (Sterling et al., 2006). The 25-member Arabidopsis thaliana GAUT1-related gene family encodes 15 GAUT and 10 GAUT-like (GATL) proteins with, respectively, 56-84 and 42-53% amino acid sequence similarity to GAUT1. Previous phylogenetic analyses of AtGAUTs indicated three clades: A through C. A comparative phylogenetic analysis of the Arabidopsis, poplar and rice GAUT families has sub-classified the GAUTs into seven clades: clade A-1 (GAUTs 1 to 3); A-2 (GAUT4); A-3 (GAUTs 5 and 6); A-4 (GAUT7); B-1 (GAUTs 8 and 9); B-2 (GAUTs 10 and 11); and clade C (GAUTs 12 to 15). The Arabidopsis GAUTs have a distribution comparable to the poplar orthologs, with the exception of GAUT2, which is absent in poplar. Rice, however, has no orthologs of GAUTs 2 and 12 and has multiple apparent orthologs of GAUTs 1, 4, and 7 compared with either Arabidopsis or poplar. The cell wall glycosyl residue compositions of 26 homozygous T-DNA insertion mutants for 13 of 15 Arabidopsis GAUT genes reveal significantly and reproducibly different cell walls in specific tissues of gaut mutants 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14 from that of wild-type Arabidopsis walls. Pectin and xylan polysaccharides are affected by the loss of GAUT function, as demonstrated by the altered galacturonic acid, xylose, rhamnose, galactose, and arabinose composition of distinct gaut mutant walls. The wall glycosyl residue compositional phenotypes observed among the gaut mutants suggest that at least six different biosynthetic linkages in pectins and/or xylans are affected by the lesions in these GAUT genes. Evidence is also presented to support a role for GAUT11 in seed mucilage expansion and in seed wall and mucilage composition.
19825680	Mitochondria utilize iron (Fe), but the proteins involved in mitochondrial Fe regulation are not characterized in plants. We cloned and characterized a mitochondrial iron-regulated (MIR) gene in rice involved in Fe homeostasis. MIR, when expressed in tobacco BY-2 cells, was localized to the mitochondria. MIR transcripts were greatly increased in response to Fe deficiency in roots and shoot tissue. MIR is not homologous to any known protein, as homologs were not found in the rice or Arabidopsis genome databases, or in the EST database for other organisms. Growth in the MIR T-DNA knockout rice mutant (mir) was significantly impaired compared to wild-type (WT) plants when grown under Fe-deficient or -sufficient conditions. Furthermore, mir plants accumulated more than twice the amount of Fe in shoot and root tissue compared to WT plants when grown under either Fe-sufficient or -deficient conditions. Despite the high accumulation of Fe in roots and shoots, mir plants triggered the expression of Fe-deficiency-inducible genes, indicating that mir may not be able to utilize Fe for physiological functions. These results clearly suggest that MIR is a rice-specific mitochondrial protein, recently evolved, and plays a significant role in Fe homeostasis.
19825834	Biosynthetic gene clusters are common in microbial organisms, but rare in plants, raising questions regarding the evolutionary forces that drive their assembly in multicellular eukaryotes. Here, we characterize the biochemical function of a rice (Oryza sativa) cytochrome P450 monooxygenase, CYP76M7, which seems to act in the production of antifungal phytocassanes and defines a second diterpenoid biosynthetic gene cluster in rice. This cluster is uniquely multifunctional, containing enzymatic genes involved in the production of two distinct sets of phytoalexins, the antifungal phytocassanes and antibacterial oryzalides/oryzadiones, with the corresponding genes being subject to distinct transcriptional regulation. The lack of uniform coregulation of the genes within this multifunctional cluster suggests that this was not a primary driving force in its assembly. However, the cluster is dedicated to specialized metabolism, as all genes in the cluster are involved in phytoalexin metabolism. We hypothesize that this dedication to specialized metabolism led to the assembly of the corresponding biosynthetic gene cluster. Consistent with this hypothesis, molecular phylogenetic comparison demonstrates that the two rice diterpenoid biosynthetic gene clusters have undergone independent elaboration to their present-day forms, indicating continued evolutionary pressure for coclustering of enzymatic genes encoding components of related biosynthetic pathways.
19825943	A recently proposed mutational mechanism, indel-associated mutation (IDAM), posits that heterozygous insertions/deletions (indels) increase the point mutation rate at nearby nucleotides due to errors during meiosis. This mechanism could have especially dynamic consequences for the evolution of plant genomes, because the high degree of variation in the rate of self-fertilization among plant species causes differences in the heterozygosity of alleles, including indel alleles, segregating in plant species. In this study, we investigated the consequences of IDAM for species differing in mating system using both forward population genetic simulations and genomewide DNA resequencing data from Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, and Oryza rufipogon. Simulations of different levels of selfing suggest that the effect of IDAM on surrounding nucleotide diversity should decrease with increasing selfing rate. Further simulations incorporating selfing rates and the time of onset of selfing suggest that the time since the switch to selfing also affects patterns of nucleotide diversity due to IDAM. Population genetic analyses of A. thaliana and Oryza DNA sequence data sets empirically confirmed our simulation results, revealing the strongest effect of IDAM in the outcrossing O. rufipogon, a weaker effect in the recently evolved selfer O. sativa, and the weakest effect in the relatively ancient selfer A. thaliana. These results support the novel idea that differences in life history, such as the level of selfing, can affect the per-individual mutation rate among species.
19826229	Metal ions essential for plant growth, such as Fe, Mn, Ni, Cu or Zn, are taken up by plants from the soil solution through metal transporters at the plasma membrane, mainly of the ZIP and Nramp families. These transport systems, however, can also give entry to other metals (Al, Cd, Hg, Pb). Non-nutritive elements, as well as the essential nutrients at higher than metabolic concentrations, can cause phytotoxicity. We have studied previously the effects of an essential (Ni) and a non essential (Cd) heavy metal on root cell plasma membranes, the first selective barrier encountered when entering the plant, using rice as model plant. Distinctive effects of Cd and Ni on membrane function (i.e., Em and membrane permeability) were observed in the short term. We have now confirmed the pattern of Em changes caused by Cd and Ni using barley roots and have also followed the effects of both metals in longer term in rice. Our data indicate that the distinct effects caused by Cd and Ni are due to differences in cellular responses, triggered when entering the cytoplasm (i.e., an efficient detoxifying mechanism for Cd), more than to different direct effects on membranes.
19826236	Increasing instances prove that nitric oxide (NO) plays a significant role in mediating root growth and development, and it is reported that NO acts as a messenger and mediates the auxin-induced adventitious roots (AR) developing process in cucumber explants. Compared with the current understanding of AR development in dicots, knowledge of the molecular and physiological mechanisms of crown root (CR) development in monocots is limited, and the roles of NO in CR initiation and development are still far from clear. Our recent studies demonstrate that a critical concentration of endogenous NO is indispensable for CR primordia initiation, the reduction of endogenous NO content blocks CR primordia initiation and decreases CR number in rice seedlings. In this addendum, Base on the results of our studies and previous reports, we supposed that CR formtion in monocots and AR formtion in dicots possible take part in the same NO signaling pathway, althoug in dicots, AR are formed under unusual circumstances and belong to the abnormal developmental program, and in monocot cereals, CR are genetically determined roots and belong to the normal developmental program of cereals. At last, we advanced a proposed schematic model showing the NO signaling pathway of CR emergence in monocots.
19826557	The strain Sphingomonas sp. GY2B is a high efficient phenanthrene-degrading strain isolated from crude oil contaminated soils that displays a broad-spectrum degradation ability towards PAHs and related aromatic compounds. This paper reports embedding immobilization of strain GY2B in calcium alginate gel beads and the rapid degradation of phenanthrene by the embedded strains. Results showed that embedded immobilized strains had high degradation percentages both in mineral salts medium (MSM) and 80% artificial seawater (AS) media, and had higher phenanthrene degradation efficiency than the free strains. More than 90% phenanthrene (100 mg x L(-1)) was degraded within 36 h, and the phenanthrene degradation percentages were >99.8% after 72 h for immobilized strains. 80% AS had significant negative effect on the phenanthrene degradation rate (PDR) of strain GY2B during the linear-decreasing stage of incubation and preadsorption of cells onto rice straw could improve the PDR of embedded strain GY2B. The immobilization of strain GY2B possesses a good potential for application in the treatment of industrial wastewater containing phenanthrene and other related aromatic compounds.
19826961	Among all endophytic keratinolytic fungal isolates recovered from marine soft coral Dendronephthya hemprichii, Penicillium spp. Morsy1 was selected as the hyperactive keratinolytic strain under solid substrate fermentation of different agriculture and poultry wastes. The optimization of extraction process, physicochemical parameters affecting the keratinase production in solid-state fermentation, and the purified keratinase parameters were studied. Maximum keratinase activity (1,600 U g(-1), initial dry substrate) was recovered from moldy bran with 0.1% Tween 80. The optimized production conditions were rice straw as carbon source, pH of medium 6, growth temperature 26 degrees C, initial moisture content of 80% (v/w), inoculum size of 10(5) spores ml(-1), and an average particle size of the substrate 0.6 mm (3,560 U g(-1), initial dry substrate after 5 days of fermentation). Two types of keratinase (Ahm1 and Ahm2) were purified from the culture supernatant through ammonium sulfate precipitation, DEAE-Sepharose, and gel filtration chromatography. Enzyme molecular weights were 19 kDa (Ahm1) and 40 kDa (Ahm2). The kinetic parameters of purified keratinases were optimized for the hydrolysis of azokeratin by Ahm1 (pH 7.0-8.0, stable in pH range of 6.0 to 8.0 at 50 degrees C) and Ahm2 enzymes (pH 10.0-11.0, stable in pH range of 6.0 to 11.0 at 60-65 degrees C). Whereas inhibitors of serine (phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride) and cysteine (iodoacetamide) proteases had minor effects on both Ahm1 and Ahm2 activity, both keratinases were strongly inhibited by chelating agents EDTA and EGTA. These findings suggest that serine and cysteine residues are not involved in the catalytic mechanisms, and they are metalloproteases.
19827460	This article describes the development, analysis, and implementation of the menu available to athletes and patrons in the main dining hall of the Athletes Village at the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games and the significant role of sports dietitians in this process. Menu design and development was informed by focus groups, literature reviews, and food-preference surveys of athletes. The final menu was also assessed by an expert panel of Australian sports dietitians. A custom-designed database (Foodweb) was developed to enable dietary analysis of food-production data and creation of point-of-choice nutrition labels. Dietitians assisted with quality assurance testing and training of catering staff. Athletes surveyed in the main dining hall (N=414) agreed that the menu contained sufficient variety and adequate meat, pasta/rice, vegetable/salad, fruit, and snack items. Sports dietitians played a significant role in ensuring that the menu met the needs of athletes from a range of differing cultural and sporting backgrounds. Dining-hall patrons provided positive feedback and few complaints about the overall dining experience. The information presented in this report can help future caterers and dietitians with the planning and provision of suitable food for athletic performance at an Olympic Games.
19828039	Although expression microarrays have become a standard tool used by biologists, analysis of data produced by microarray experiments may still present challenges. Comparison of data from different platforms, organisms, and labs may involve complicated data processing, and inferring relationships between genes remains difficult. STARNET 2 is a new web-based tool that allows post hoc visual analysis of correlations that are derived from expression microarray data. STARNET 2 facilitates user discovery of putative gene regulatory networks in a variety of species (human, rat, mouse, chicken, zebrafish, Drosophila, C. elegans, S. cerevisiae, Arabidopsis and rice) by graphing networks of genes that are closely co-expressed across a large heterogeneous set of preselected microarray experiments. For each of the represented organisms, raw microarray data were retrieved from NCBI's Gene Expression Omnibus for a selected Affymetrix platform. All pairwise Pearson correlation coefficients were computed for expression profiles measured on each platform, respectively. These precompiled results were stored in a MySQL database, and supplemented by additional data retrieved from NCBI. A web-based tool allows user-specified queries of the database, centered at a gene of interest. The result of a query includes graphs of correlation networks, graphs of known interactions involving genes and gene products that are present in the correlation networks, and initial statistical analyses. Two analyses may be performed in parallel to compare networks, which is facilitated by the new HEATSEEKER module. STARNET 2 is a useful tool for developing new hypotheses about regulatory relationships between genes and gene products, and has coverage for 10 species. Interpretation of the correlation networks is supported with a database of previously documented interactions, a test for enrichment of Gene Ontology terms, and heat maps of correlation distances that may be used to compare two networks. The list of genes in a STARNET network may be useful in developing a list of candidate genes to use for the inference of causal networks. The tool is freely available at http://vanburenlab.medicine.tamhsc.edu/starnet2.html, and does not require user registration.
19828509	Since evidence relating diet to breast cancer risk is not sufficiently consistent to elaborate preventive proposals, the authors examined the association between dietary patterns and breast cancer risk in a large French cohort study. The analyses included 2,381 postmenopausal invasive breast cancer cases diagnosed during a median 9.7-year follow-up period (1993-2005) among 65,374 women from the E3N-EPIC cohort. Scores for dietary patterns were obtained by factor analysis, and breast cancer hazard ratios were estimated by Cox proportional hazards regression for the highest quartile of dietary pattern score versus the lowest. Two dietary patterns were identified: "alcohol/Western" (essentially meat products, French fries, appetizers, rice/pasta, potatoes, pulses, pizza/pies, canned fish, eggs, alcoholic beverages, cakes, mayonnaise, and butter/cream) and "healthy/Mediterranean" (essentially vegetables, fruits, seafood, olive oil, and sunflower oil). The first pattern was positively associated with breast cancer risk (hazard ratio = 1.20, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.03, 1.38; P = 0.007 for linear trend), especially when tumors were estrogen receptor-positive/progesterone receptor-positive. The "healthy/Mediterranean" pattern was negatively associated with breast cancer risk (hazard ratio = 0.85, 95% CI: 0.75, 0.95; P = 0.003 for linear trend), especially when tumors were estrogen receptor-positive/progesterone receptor-negative. Adherence to a diet comprising mostly fruits, vegetables, fish, and olive/sunflower oil, along with avoidance of Western-type foods, may contribute to a substantial reduction in postmenopausal breast cancer risk.
19828990	The seminal development of control of food production and its social and biological effects on human populations has for a long time been one of the foci of prehistoric research. The relationship between diet and oral pathology is well recognised and accepted to the point where rates of dental caries in particular have been seen as indicative of subsistence mode. This is despite the complex aetiology of caries, with both genetic and environmental factors other than diet contributing to lesion frequency. Most publications considering prehistoric diet and caries acknowledge the contribution of non-dietary variables but provide a more comfortable dietary explanation, with the role of domesticated starchy staples paramount. This widespread acceptance of a simple relationship between dental pathology and starchy carbohydrates needs to be challenged, as there is no reason why one dietary component would be solely responsible for the development of caries or why all carbohydrates should have the same effect. Some years ago, on the basis of evidence from prehistoric rice farming communities in Southeast Asia, we questioned the relationship between dental caries and the presumptive increased carbohydrate consumption consequent to the adoption of agriculture. This paper reviews recent literature on the topic and presents evidence that there is still no simple or universally applicable explanation for patterns of changes in caries frequencies during human prehistory.
1983018	Bacillus sphaericus formulations were evaluated against Psorophora columbiae larvae in small rice plots. All formulations tested provided good control (greater than 84%) for all rates tested at 2 days posttreatment. At 10 days posttreatment, fair control (greater than 70%) was recorded for ABG-6232 (0.184 kg/ha), ABG-6262; 27-242-BA (0.766 and 2.298 liters/ha), and ABG-6262; 29-293-BA (2.298 liters/ha). At 7 days posttreatment mortality was below 66%. Control did not exceed 27% at 15 days posttreatment for any formulation tested. Application rates for all formulations tested had little relationship with observed mortality, and control levels often were greater at the lower dosages tested. Bacillus sphaericus provided an effective means for controlling Ps. columbiae, but additional research is needed to determine the lower limit of effective treatment dosages and spore persistence in the rice field environment.
19830390	Proline-rich protein (PRP), a cell wall protein of plant, has been studied in many plant species. Yet, none of the PRPs has been functionally elucidated. Here we report a novel flower-specific PRP designated OsPRP3 from rice. Expression analysis showed that the OsPRP3 transcript was mainly present in rice flower and accumulated abundantly during the late stage of the flower development. To study the function of OsPRP3, we constructed and transformed a binary vector containing a full clone of OsPRP3 in sense orientation and also an RNAi vector to achieve overexpression and knockout of the gene, respectively. Our overexpression plants showed a significant increase in cold tolerance than the WT plants which is conferred by the accumulation of OsPRP3 protein during cold treatment. Further the microscopic analysis revealed that OsPRP3 enhances the cell wall integrity in the cold tolerant plant and confers cold-tolerance in rice. Microscopic analysis of the RNAi mutant flower revealed that blocking OsPRP3 function caused significant defects in floral organogenesis. Taken together, the results suggested that OsPRP3 is a cell wall protein, playing a crucial role in determining extracellular matrix structure of floral organs.
19833505	Rice husk is an abundant agricultural byproduct. In the present paper, research on consecutive preparation of d-xylose and superfine silica from rice husk is carried out. The optimum hydrolysis conditions of xylan in rice husk to d-xylose are as follows: the concentration of H(2)SO(4) is 4% (wt.%), the temperature is 130 degrees C, the ratio of rice husk mass (g) to H(2)SO(4) solution volume (ml) is 1:4 and the time is 2 h. The hydrolysis degree of xylan reaches 96.22% (wt.%). High purity (98.5%, wt.%) d-xylose is obtained from acid hydrolysis solution with the purification yield of 71.63% (wt.%). At the same time, the metal oxides in rice husk are efficiently dissolved by H(2)SO(4). Residuals from H(2)SO(4) pre-treatment are incinerated under 750 degrees C in stationary air for 15 min. Silica is obtained with the purity of 99.87% (wt.%). The superfine silica powder is obtained after ground and ultrasonic dispersion, with the diameter of 30-200 nm and specific surface 287.86 m(2)/g.
19834257	The incidence of serious poisoning caused by occupational cadmium exposure has declined over the past four decades due to improvements in the work environment. However, long-term low-level exposure to cadmium needs to be addressed. For workers in industries that handle cadmium, it is necessary to consider the daily cadmium intake from contaminated foods such as cereals and rice in addition to the occupational exposure, since workers might be exposed to higher levels of cadmium from a combination of these sources. Cadmium accumulates in the renal cortex by the long-term exposure along with increased concentrations of metallothionein, an important protein for protection from cadmium toxicity. However, some individuals have lower metallothionein levels despite increased cadmium accumulation in the kidneys. This article describes the strategy method for analyzing individual susceptibility to cadmium toxicity and genetic polymorphisms of metallothionein, with reference to the current status of occupational cadmium exposure.
19834537	CLAVATA signaling restricts stem cell identity in the shoot apical meristem (SAM) in Arabidopsis thaliana. In rice (Oryza sativa), FLORAL ORGAN NUMBER2 (FON2), closely related to CLV3, is involved as a signaling molecule in a similar pathway to negatively regulate stem cell proliferation in the floral meristem (FM). Here we show that the FON2 SPARE1 (FOS1) gene encoding a CLE protein functions along with FON2 in maintenance of the FM. In addition, FOS1 appears to be involved in maintenance of the SAM in the vegetative phase, because constitutive expression of FOS1 caused termination of the vegetative SAM. Genetic analysis revealed that FOS1 does not need FON1, the putative receptor of FON2, for its action, suggesting that FOS1 and FON2 may function in meristem maintenance as signaling molecules in independent pathways. Initially, we identified FOS1 as a suppressor that originates from O. sativa indica and suppresses the fon2 mutation in O. sativa japonica. FOS1 function in japonica appears to be compromised by a functional nucleotide polymorphism (FNP) at the putative processing site of the signal peptide. Sequence comparison of FOS1 in about 150 domesticated rice and wild rice species indicates that this FNP is present only in japonica, suggesting that redundant regulation by FOS1 and FON2 is commonplace in species in the Oryza genus. Distribution of the FNP also suggests that this mutation may have occurred during the divergence of japonica from its wild ancestor. Stem cell maintenance may be regulated by at least three negative pathways in rice, and each pathway may contribute differently to this regulation depending on the type of the meristem. This situation contrasts with that in Arabidopsis, where CLV signaling is the major single pathway in all meristems.
19834731	Cadmium is a ubiquitous hazardous element with nephro-toxicity after long-term exposure. The present study was initiated to examine possible effects of dietary cadmium (Cd) intake on health of local residents across Japan. For this purpose, Cd in locally harvested brown rice (Cd-BR) was taken as the parameter of Cd exposure, and two measures of mortality, i.e., standardized mortality ratio (SMR) and age-adjusted renal insufficiency mortality rate (AARIMR) were employed as parameters of over-all health effects including effects on kidney. Japan consists of 47 prefectures. Data on Cd in 37,250 brown rice samples harvested in 1997-1998 in the 47 prefectures were made available from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, Japan. SMR and AARIMR data (for the year 2000) by two genders in the 47 prefectures were cited from publications of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, Japan. Possible correlation of Cd in brown rice (Cd-BR) with SMR and AARIMR was examined by Poisson regression analysis. The geometric mean (GM) Cd-BR for Japan as a whole was 0.040 mg/kg with a geometric standard deviation (GSD) of 2.72. Prefectural GM values varied from a low of <0.01 mg/kg to a high of 0.089 mg/kg. Nevertheless, SMR (in a range of 89.9-119.5 for men and 87.1-111.7 for women) did not correlate with Cd-BR significantly. AARIMR (in a range of 5.3-11.9 and 3.2-8.4 for men and women, respectively) tended to decrease as a function of increasing Cd-BR both in men and women, although the correlation was insignificant in both genders. No evidence was obtained in the present analysis to suggest that either mortality as a whole or the mortality due to renal failure is affected by dietary intake of Cd in rice.
19835162	The hrp (hypersensitive response on nonhost plants and pathogenicity in host plants) gene cluster, which conforms Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal agent of bacterial leaf streak in rice, to the ability to elicit a hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco and pathogenicity in host rice, is thought to be regulated by the hrpG and hrpX genes. However, it is unclear whether the hrpG and hrpX genes regulate all the hrp gene expression of the cluster coordinately or not. We constructed a mutant with both hrpG and hrpX genes knocked out. which, as the same as the single mutant at the hrpG or hrpX gene, lost the ability to trigger HR in tobacco and pathogenicity in rice, respectively. Correspondingly, the hrpG and hrpX genes together could restore such the ability to the double mutant at the hrpG and hrpX loci. After grew in rice suspension cells, hrp-inducing medium XOM3 and nutrient-rich medium NB for 16 hours, respectively, reverse transcriptional polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) revealed that: the expression of hrp genes in NB medium was lower that that in rice cells and XOM3 medium; in whatever growth media, the hrcC, hrcT, hrpE and hpa3 genes expressed, while the hpa1, hpa2, hpaB, hrcJ, and hrpG genes did not in the hrpG mutant; the hpa2, hrcC, hpa3, hrpE and hrpG genes expressed, while the hpa1, hrcT, hpaB and hrcJ genes did not in the hrpX mutant; the hrcC, hrpE and hpa3 genes expressed, but the hpa1, hpa2, hpaB, hrcT, hrcJ and hrpG genes did not in the hrpG and hrpX double mutant. This indicated that the expression of the hrcC, hrpE and hpa3 genes was not regulated by the hrpG and/or hrpX genes, but the expression of the hrcT gene was negatively controlled by the hrpG gene. Thus, we postulated that the expression of key type- III secretion (T3S) apparatus components was controlled by an unknown signaling pathway, which may facilitate our further understanding on the formation of the T3S machine.
19835684	The objective of this study has been to evaluate the stability of alpha-, (gamma+beta)-, and delta-tocopherols in rice bran oil chemically refined submitted to heating in a heater without air circulation and shielded from light, at temperatures of 100 degrees C and 180 degrees C. The collection of samples took place after 48, 96, 144, 192, 240, 336, and 432 h of heating and were stored in amber-colored flasks and frozen (-18 degrees C). The analyses of tocopherols took place in accordance with the method by Chen and Bergman (2005), with slight modifications, utilizing a system of high efficiency system of liquid chromatography. It was observed that the alpha-tocopherol is present at higher concentration in rice bran oil (328.4 mg/kg), followed by (gamma+beta)-tocopherol (99.1 mg/kg), and delta-tocopherol (7.7 mg/kg). The alpha-tocopherol in rice bran oil submitted to 100 degrees C showed a reduction of 28.65% at the end of 432 h of heating whereas when submitted to 180 degrees C temperature; its reduction was of 100% at the end of 240 h of heating. The contents of (gamma+beta)- and delta-tocopherol in rice bran oil at the end of 432 h of heating at 100 degrees C was of 79.9 and 6.4 mg/100 g, respectively.
19836724	Concern about environmental protection has aroused over the years from a global viewpoint. To date, the ever-increasing importance of biomass as the energy and material resources has lately been accounted by the rising prices for the crude petroleum oil. Rice husk ash, the most appropriate representative of the high ash biomass waste, is currently obtaining sufficient attraction, owning to its wide usefulness and potentiality in environmental conservation. Confirming the assertion, this paper presents a state of the art review of the rice milling industry, its background studies, fundamental properties and industrial applications. Moreover, the key advance on the preparation of novel adsorbents, its major challenges together with the future expectation has been highlighted and discussed. Conclusively, the expanding of rice husk ash in the field of adsorption science represents a viable and powerful tool, leading to the superior improvement of pollution control and environmental preservation.
19836946	This study aimed to research the productivity of H(2)-rich fuel gas from rice straw using the microwave-induced pyrolysis. The formation constituents of gas product and the mechanism of its production were also discussed. The primary components of gas product were H(2), CO(2), CO, and CH(4), with average percentages of 50.67, 22.56, 16.09, and 7.42vol.%, respectively. According to the TA-MS analysis, it was suggested that focused heating by microwaves made the microwave-induced pyrolysis different from the traditional pyrolysis. A chemical equation could be nearly balanced to illustrate the gas composition generated from rice straw. From the viewpoint of energy consumption, close to 60% of the input energy could be derived and utilized as bioenergy.
19837571	Ca(2+) is a second messenger in pathways that transduce external signals and activate cellular processes in plants and animals. Ca(2+)-mediated signal transduction is involved in key pathways that contribute to a variety of fundamental physiological processes in eukaryotic cells. However, little is known about the molecular mechanisms of Ca(2+)-mediated signal transduction in filamentous fungi. In this study, the MoCMK1 gene, encoding a putative Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent kinase, was identified in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. Three MoCMK1 deletion mutants were obtained by a targeted gene replacement. Colonies of the MoCMK1 mutants had sparse aerial hyphae and fewer conidia than the wild-type strain on complete medium. Conidial germination and appressorial formation were delayed in the DeltaMocmk1 mutants. In spray inoculation tests, DeltaMocmk1 mutants exhibited a weakened ability to infect the susceptible rice cultivar CO-39, compared to the wild-type strain Guy11. These results showed that MoCMK1 plays key roles in the pathogenicity of the rice blast fungus.
19837582	A high yield of beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21) of 159.1 U/g-solid activity on 4-nitrophenyl beta-d-glucopyranoside (pNPG) was achieved by rice bran-based solid-state fermentation (SSF) of the recently characterized fungus Penicillium citrinum YS40-5. The enzyme was both thermophilic and acidophilic at the optimized temperature and pH of 70 degrees C and 5.0, respectively. Over 95% of the original beta-glucosidase activity was maintained after a prolonged storage at ambient temperature for 4 weeks. The kinetic parameters V(max), K(m) and K(I) were 85.93 U/mg, 1.2 mM and 17.59 mM with pNPG, and 72.49 U/mg, 32.17 mM and 8.29 mM with cellobiose, respectively. The protein band with beta-glucosidase activity was characterized by native PAGE followed by MUG-zymogram analysis, and its identity confirmed by nanoLC-MS/MS. A 3.43-fold synergistic effect by combining this beta-glucosidase with Trichoderma reesei cellulases was observed, indicating this enzyme could potentially be used for improving the efficiency of cellulosic bioconversion.
19837870	Cytokinins play crucial roles in diverse aspects of plant growth and development. Spatiotemporal distribution of bioactive cytokinins is finely regulated by metabolic enzymes. LONELY GUY (LOG) was previously identified as a cytokinin-activating enzyme that works in the direct activation pathway in rice (Oryza sativa) shoot meristems. In this work, nine Arabidopsis thaliana LOG genes (At LOG1 to LOG9) were predicted as homologs of rice LOG. Seven At LOGs, which are localized in the cytosol and nuclei, had enzymatic activities equivalent to that of rice LOG. Conditional overexpression of At LOGs in transgenic Arabidopsis reduced the content of N(6)-(Delta(2)-isopentenyl)adenine (iP) riboside 5'-phosphates and increased the levels of iP and the glucosides. Multiple mutants of At LOGs showed a lower sensitivity to iP riboside in terms of lateral root formation and altered root and shoot morphology. Analyses of At LOG promoter:beta-glucuronidase fusion genes revealed differential expression of LOGs in various tissues during plant development. Ectopic overexpression showed pleiotropic phenotypes, such as promotion of cell division in embryos and leaf vascular tissues, reduced apical dominance, and a delay of leaf senescence. Our results strongly suggest that the direct activation pathway via LOGs plays a pivotal role in regulating cytokinin activity during normal growth and development in Arabidopsis.
19838636	A phosphate starvation-induced, purple, acid phosphatase cDNA was cloned from rice, Oryza sativa. The cDNA encoding the phosphatase (OsPAP2) has 1,893 bp with an open reading frame of 630 amino acid residues. The deduced amino acid sequence of OsPAP2 shows identities of 60-63% with other plant purple acid phosphatases and appears to have five conserved motifs containing the residues involved in metal binding. OsPAP2 expression is up-regulated in the rice plant and in cell cultures in the absence of phosphate (P(i)). The induced expression of OsPAP2 is a specific response to P(i) starvation, and is not affected by the deprivation of other nutrients. OsPAP2 expression was responsive to the level of P(i)-supply, and transcripts of OsPAP2 were abundant in P(i)-deprived roots. The OsPAP2 cDNA was expressed as a 69 kDa polypeptide in baculovirus-infected insect Sf9 cells. In addition, the OsPAP2 gene was introduced into Arabidopsis via an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Functional expression of the OsPAP2 gene in the transgenic Arabidopsis line was confirmed by northern and western blot analyses, as well as by phosphatase activity assays. These results suggest that the OsPAP2 gene can be used to develop new transgenic dicotyledonous plants that are able to adapt to P(i)-deficient conditions.
19839332	In the present research, the scanner was adopted as the digital image sensor, and a new method to diagnose the status of rice based on image processing technology was established. The main results are as follows: (1) According to the analysis of relations between leaf percentage nitrogen contents and color parameter, the sensitive color parameters were abstracted as B, b, b/(r+g), b/r and b/g. The leaf position (vertical spatial variation) effects on leaf chlorophyll contents were investigated, and the third fully expanded leaf was selected as the diagnosis leaf. (2) Field ground data such as ASD were collected simultaneously. Then study on the relationships between scanned leaf color characteristics and hyperspectral was carried out. The results indicated that the diagnosis of nitrogen status based on the scanned color characteristic is able to partly reflect the hyperspectral properties. (3) The leaf color and shape features were intergrated and the model of diagnosing the status of rice was established with calculated at YIQ color system. The distinct accuracy of nitrogen status was as follows: N0: 74.9%; N1 : 52%; N2 : 84.7%; N3 : 75%. The preliminary study showed that the methodology has been proved successful in this study and provides the potential to monitor nitrogen status in a cost-effective and accurate way based on the scanned digital image. Although, some confusion exists, with rapidly increasing resolution of digital platform and development of digital image technology, it will be more convenient for larger farms that can afford to use mechanized systems for site-specific nutrient management. Moreover, deeper theory research and practice experiment should be needed in the future.
19839333	In the present research, a field experiment with different N application rate was conducted to study the possibility of using visible band color analysis methods to monitor the N status of rice canopy. The Correlations of visible spectrum band color intensity between rice canopy image acquired from a digital camera and conventional nitrogen status diagnosis parameters of leaf SPAD chlorophyll meter readings, total N content, upland biomass and N uptake were studied. The results showed that the red color intensity (R), green color intensity (G) and normalized redness intensity (NRI) have significant inverse linear correlations with the conventional N diagnosis parameters of SPAD readings, total N content, upland biomass and total N uptake. The correlation coefficient values (r) were from -0.561 to -0.714 for red band (R), from -0.452 to -0.505 for green band (G), and from -0.541 to 0.817 for normalized redness intensity (NRI). But the normalized greenness intensity (NGI) showed a significant positive correlation with conventional N parameters and the correlation coefficient values (r) were from 0.505 to 0.559. Compared with SPAD readings, the normalized redness intensity (NRI), with a high r value of 0.541-0.780 with conventional N parameters, could better express the N status of rice. The digital image color analysis method showed the potential of being used in rice N status diagnosis in the future.
19839586	Monitoring of exposure to chemicals from food contact materials is a subject of increasing importance. The concentration of the chemicals and their migration levels, as well as food consumption and packaging usage data, are required to enable calculation of the degree of such exposure. The present study investigated the migration kinetics of diphenylbutadiene (DPBD) from packages into flour, rice, honey, milk powder and toast. Migration was not always negligible, except in honey and skimmed milk powder. Experiments carried out with starch alone enabled us to conclude that diffusion of migrants occurred through starch and fat. Key diffusion parameters were determined (diffusion coefficient and partition coefficient) based on Fick's second equation. The following diffusion coefficients were obtained at 25 degrees C: 2.7 x 10(-10), 3.4 x 10(-11), 3.2 x 10(-10), 8.4 x 10(-11), 8.1 x 10(-11) cm(2) s(-1), for wheat flour, rice, milk powder and toast, with 4 and 21% fat, respectively. A very good fit between experimental and predicted data was achieved. The data obtained in the present study confirm the validity of the mathematical model for predicting migration from Food Contact Materials (FCM) into foods.
19839623	Photoinitiators are components widely used in UV-cured inks for printing food packaging. In the present study, the migration of seven photoinitiators through the vapor phase was investigated. To perform the migration test, an additive enriched polyethylene wax was used as a source to release photoinitiators. The method was applied to evaluate the migration of the photoinitiators into five selected dry foods (cake, bread, cereals, rice and pasta). The highest level of migration was found in the cake. Parameters affecting the migration process were evaluated, and high migration level was found to correlate with both the porosity and the fat content. In addition, the kinetics of migration of the photoinitiators from the additive enriched wax into the cake were studied under accelerated conditions.
19840759	Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) play crucial roles in cellular signal perception and propagation. To study the evolutionary relationships among RLKs in soybean, a large-scale expressed sequence tags (ESTs) survey for RLKs-related sequences was conducted. By doing BLAST analysis using our database and The Gene Index Database, 605 putative RLK genes were identified. Based on the phylogeny of the kinase domain, these soybean RLKs were classified into 58 different small subfamilies. The phylogenetic analysis of RLKs in soybean, rice and Arabidopsis showed that different subfamilies of RLKs had different functions and could have experienced different selective pressures.
19840921	Improving the disease resistance of rice is a major objective in rice breeding programs, which provides a basic guarantee for the good quality and high yield in rice. Recently, substantial progresses on the research of rice disease resistant mechanism had been made. Some important genes had been identified and cloned. The recent achievements in identification, cloning, and biological function analyses of these genes were summarized and their potential application in breeding was also discussed.
19841664	Thirty-one CLAVATA3/ENDOSPERM SURROUNDING REGION (ESR)-related (CLE) proteins are encoded in the Arabidopsis genome, and they are supposed to function as dodecapeptides with two hydroxyproline residues. Twenty-six synthetic CLE peptides, corresponding to the predicted products of the 31 CLE genes, were examined in Arabidopsis and rice. Nineteen CLE peptides induced root meristem consumption, resulting in the short root phenotype in Arabidopsis and rice, whereas no CLE peptides affected the shoot apical meristem in rice. Database searches revealed 47 putative CLE genes in the rice genome. Three of the rice CLE genes, OsCLE502, OsCLE504 and OsCLE506, encode CLE proteins with multiple CLE domains, which are not found in the Arabidopsis genome, and polyproline region was found between these CLE domains. These results indicate conserved and/or diverse CLE functions in each plant species.
19841886	An F(4:5) population of 490 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from the cross Apo/(2*)Swarna was used to detect quantitative trait loci (QTL) with large effects on grain yield under drought stress using bulk-segregant analysis (BSA). Swarna is an important rainfed lowland rice variety grown on millions of hectares in Asia, but is highly susceptible to drought and aerobic soil conditions. Apo is an aerobic-adapted variety with moderate tolerance to drought. Two rice microsatellite (RM) markers, RM324, and RM416, located on chromosomes 2 and 3, respectively, were shown via BSA to be strongly associated with yield under lowland drought stress. The effects of these QTL were tested in a total of eight hydrological environments over a period of 3 years. The QTL linked to RM416 (DTY(3.1)) had a large effect on grain yield under severe lowland drought stress, explaining about 31% of genetic variance for the trait (P < 0.0001). It also explained considerable variance for yield under mild stress in lowland conditions and aerobic environments. To our knowledge this is the first reported QTL that has a large effect on yield in both lowland drought and aerobic environments. The QTL linked to RM324 (DTY(2.1)) had a highly significant effect on grain yield in lowland drought stress (R(2) = 13-16%) and in two aerobic trials. The effect of these QTL on grain yield was verified to be not mainly due to phenology differences. Effects of DTY(3.1) on yield under stress have been observed in several other rice mapping populations studied at IRRI. Results of this study indicate that BSA is an effective method of identifying QTL alleles with large effects on rice yield under severe drought stress. The Apo alleles for these large-effect QTL for grain yield under drought and aerobic conditions may be immediately exploited in marker-assisted-breeding to improve the drought tolerance of Swarna.
19843254	Porteresia coarctata (Syn = Oryza coarctata) is a tetraploid wild rice growing abundantly in the coastal region of India and some other Asian countries. The salt tolerance property of this mangrove associate has been dealt with by a number of workers earlier. The distinct morphology and leaf architecture enabling the plant to exclude salt is a characteristic feature of Porteresia in comparison with Oryza sp. A number of genes have been isolated and characterized from Porteresia that are related to the salt-tolerance property of the plant. Evidence have accumulated that some pathways critical to salt tolerance are in operation in Porteresia of which the inositol metabolic pathway has been recently elaborated. Some of the enzymes of Porteresia have been shown to function as salt-tolerant under in vitro studies giving a clue that this wild halophytic rice may have evolved genes and proteins capable of functioning under a salt environment. Bioprospecting of such genes and proteins coupled with genomic and proteomic approaches remain an exciting area of research in evaluating this plant as a model for salt tolerance for the rice plant.
19843335	Accurate computational identification of cis-regulatory motifs is difficult, particularly in eukaryotic promoters, which typically contain multiple short and degenerate DNA sequences bound by several interacting factors. Enrichment in combinations of rare motifs in the promoter sequence of functionally or evolutionarily related genes among several species is an indicator of conserved transcriptional regulatory mechanisms. This provides a basis for the computational identification of cis-regulatory motifs. We have used a discriminative seeding DNA motif discovery algorithm for an in-depth analysis of 54 seed storage protein (SSP) gene promoters from three plant families, namely Brassicaceae (mustards), Fabaceae (legumes) and Poaceae (grasses) using backgrounds based on complete sets of promoters from a representative species in each family, namely Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh.), soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) and rice (Oryza sativa L.) respectively. We have identified three conserved motifs (two RY-like and one ACGT-like) in Brassicaceae and Fabaceae SSP gene promoters that are similar to experimentally characterized seed-specific cis-regulatory elements. Fabaceae SSP gene promoter sequences are also enriched in a novel, seed-specific E2Fb-like motif. Conserved motifs identified in Poaceae SSP gene promoters include a GCN4-like motif, two prolamin-box-like motifs and an Skn-1-like motif. Evidence of the presence of a variant of the TATA-box is found in the SSP gene promoters from the three plant families. Motifs discovered in SSP gene promoters were used to score whole-genome sets of promoters from Arabidopsis, soybean and rice. The highest-scoring promoters are associated with genes coding for different subunits or precursors of seed storage proteins. Seed storage protein gene promoter motifs are conserved in diverse species, and different plant families are characterized by a distinct combination of conserved motifs. The majority of discovered motifs match experimentally characterized cis-regulatory elements. These results provide a good starting point for further experimental analysis of plant seed-specific promoters and our methodology can be used to unravel more transcriptional regulatory mechanisms in plants and other eukaryotes.
19847104	Although the phytohormone auxin has been implicated primarily in developmental processes, some recent studies suggest its involvement in stress/defense responses as well. Recently, we identified auxin-responsive genes and reported their comprehensive transcript profiling during various stages of development and abiotic stress responses in crop plant rice. The analysis revealed tissue-specific and overlapping expression profiles of auxin-responsive genes during various stages of reproductive development. In addition, a large number of auxin-responsive genes were also found to be differentially expressed under various abiotic stress conditions. Here, we further analyze the expression profiles of auxin-responsive genes during various biotic stress conditions. Several auxin-responsive genes showed response to biotic stress as well. Our analysis provides evidence for role of auxin in plant defense responses and suggests cross-talk between auxin, abiotic stress and biotic stress signaling pathways.
19847266	High-copy-number transposable elements comprise the majority of eukaryotic genomes where they are major contributors to gene and genome evolution. However, it remains unclear how a host genome can survive a rapid burst of hundreds or thousands of insertions because such bursts are exceedingly rare in nature and therefore difficult to observe in real time. In a previous study we reported that in a few rice strains the DNA transposon mPing was increasing its copy number by approximately 40 per plant per generation. Here we exploit the completely sequenced rice genome to determine 1,664 insertion sites using high-throughput sequencing of 24 individual rice plants and assess the impact of insertion on the expression of 710 genes by comparative microarray analysis. We find that the vast majority of transposable element insertions either upregulate or have no detectable effect on gene transcription. This modest impact reflects a surprising avoidance of exon insertions by mPing and a preference for insertion into 5' flanking sequences of genes. Furthermore, we document the generation of new regulatory networks by a subset of mPing insertions that render adjacent genes stress inducible. As such, this study provides evidence for models first proposed previously for the involvement of transposable elements and other repetitive sequences in genome restructuring and gene regulation.
19847389	To facilitate the creation of easily comparable, low-resolution genetic maps with evenly distributed markers in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we conceived of and developed a Universal Core Genetic Map (UCGM). With this aim, we derived a set of 165 anchors, representing clusters of three microsatellite or simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers arranged into non-recombining groups. Each anchor consists of at least three, closely linked SSRs, located within a distance below the genetic resolution provided by common, segregating populations (<500 individuals). We chose anchors that were evenly distributed across the rice chromosomes, with spacing between 2 and 3.5 Mbp (except in the telomeric regions, where spacing was 1.5 Mbp). Anchor selection was performed using in silico tools and data: the O. sativa cv. Nipponbare rice genome sequence, the CHARM tool, information from the Gramene database and the OrygenesDB database. Sixteen AA-genome accessions of the Oryza genus were used to evaluate polymorphisms for the selected markers, including accessions from O. sativa, O. glaberrima, O. barthii, O. rufipogon, O. glumaepatula and O. meridionalis. High levels of polymorphism were found for the tested O. sativa x O. glaberrima or O. sativa x wild rice combinations. We developed Paddy Map, a simple database that is helpful in selecting optimal sets of polymorphic SSRs for any cross that involves the previously mentioned species. Validation of the UCGM was done by using it to develop three interspecific genetic maps and by comparing genetic SSR locations with their physical positions on the rice pseudomolecules. In this study, we demonstrate that the UCGM is a useful tool for the rice genetics and breeding community, especially in strategies based on interspecific hybridisation.
19847818	Flower symmetry is considered a morphological novelty that contributed significantly to the rapid radiation of the angiosperms, which already puzzled Charles Darwin and prompted him to name this phenomenon an 'abominable mystery'. In 2009, the bicentenary of Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of his seminal work, 'On the Origin of Species', this question can now be more satisfactorily readdressed. Understanding the molecular control of monosymmetry formation in the model species Antirrhinum opened the path for comparative studies with non-model species revealing modifications of this trait. TCP transcription factors, named after TEOSINTE BRANCHED 1 in maize, CYCLOIDEA in snapdragon and PCF in rice, control flower monosymmetry development and contributed to establishing this trait several times independently in higher angiosperms. The joint advances in evolutionary and developmental plant research, combined in the novel research field named Evo/Devo, aim at elucidating the molecular mechanisms and strategies to unravel the mystery of how this diversity has been generated.
19849723	Neonicotinoid insecticides, such as imidacloprid, are selective agonists of the insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and extensively used in areas of crop protection and animal health to control a variety of insect pest species. Here we describe that two cis-nitromethylene neonicotinoids (IPPA152002 and IPPA152004), recently synthesized in our laboratory, discriminated between the high and low affinity imidacloprid binding sites in the brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, a major insect pest of rice crops in many parts of Asia. [(3)H]imidacloprid has two binding sites with different affinities (Kd value of 0.0035 +/- 0.0006 nM for the high-affinity site and 1.47 +/- 0.22 nM for the low-affinity site). Although the cis-nitromethylene neonicotinoids showed low displacement ability (Ki values of 0.15 +/- 0.03 microM and 0.42 +/- 0.07 microM for IPPA152002 and IPPA152004, respectively) against [(3)H]imidacloprid binding, low concentrations (0.01 microM) of IPPA152002 completely inhibited [(3)H]imidacloprid binding at its high-affinity site. In Xenopus oocytes co-injected with cRNA encoding Nlalpha1 and rat beta2 subunits, obvious inward currents were detected in response to applications of IPPA152002 and IPPA152004, although the agonist potency is reduced to that of imidacloprid. The previously identified Y151S mutation in Nlalpha1 showed significant effects on the agonist potency of IPPA152002 and IPPA152004, such as a 75.8% and 70.6% reduction in Imax, and a 2.4- and 2.1-fold increase in EC(50). This data clearly shows that the two newly described cis-nitromethylene neonicotinoids act on insect nAChRs and like imidacloprid, discriminated between high and low affinity binding sites in N. lugens native nAChRs. These compounds may be useful tools to further elucidate the pharmacology and nature of neonicotinoid binding sites.
19849788	The transcription activator-like (TAL) type III effector AvrXa27 from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) strain PXO99(A) activates the transcription of the host resistance gene Xa27, which results in disease resistance to bacterial blight (BB) in rice. In this study, we show that AvrXa27-activated Xa27 transcription requires host general transcription factor OsTFIIAgamma5. The V39E substitution in OsTFIIAgamma5, encoded by the recessive resistance gene xa5 in rice, greatly attenuates this activation in xa5 and Xa27 double homozygotes on inoculation with Xa27-incompatible strains. The xa5 gene also causes attenuation in the induction of Xa27 by AvrXa27 expressed in rice. The xa5-mediated attenuation of Xa27-mediated resistance to PXO99(A) is recessive. Intriguingly, xa5-mediated resistance to xa5-incompatible strains is also down-regulated in the xa5 and Xa27 double homozygotes. In addition, AvrXa27 expressed in planta shows weak virulence activity in the xa5 genetic background and causes enhanced susceptibility of the plants to BB inoculation. The results suggest that TAL effectors target host general transcription factors to directly manipulate the host transcriptional machinery for virulence and/or avirulence. The identification of xa5-mediated attenuation of Xa27-mediated resistance to Xoo provides a guideline for breeding resistance to BB when pyramiding xa5 with other resistance genes.
19850038	Although rice (Oryza sativa L.) produces little glycine betaine (GB), it has two betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH; EC 1.2.1.8) gene homologs (OsBADH1 and OsBADH2). We found that OsBADH1 catalyzes the oxidation of acetaldehyde efficiently, while the activity of OsBADH2 is extremely low. The accumulation of OsBADH1 mRNA decreases following submergence treatment, but quickly recovers after re-aeration. We confirmed that OsBADH1 localizes in peroxisomes. In this paper, a possible physiological function of OsBADH1 in the oxidation of acetaldehyde produced by catalase in rice plant peroxisomes is discussed.
19850287	The presence of a fairly uncommon side chain 2-O-beta-D-xylopyranosyl-alpha-L-arabinofuranosyl in arabinoxylans (AX) from eight different cereal by-products was investigated, using (1)H NMR spectroscopy and high-performance anion-exchange chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection (HPAEC-PAD) after Shearzyme (GH10 endo-1,4-beta-D-xylanase) hydrolysis. This disaccharide side group was present in significant amounts in AX extracted from corn cobs and barley husks. For the first time, it was also detected in AX from oat spelts and rice husks, and in lesser amounts in wheat straw AX. Arabinoxylo-oligosaccharide (AXOS) containing the 2-O-beta-D-Xylp-alpha-L-Araf side chain was purified from the oat spelt AX hydrolysate and the structure was fully analyzed using 1D and 2D NMR spectroscopy. The AXOS was identified as beta-D-Xylp-(1-->2)-alpha-L-Araf-(1-->3)-beta-D-Xylp-(1-->4)-D-Xyl. To our knowledge, such a structure with 2-O-beta-D-Xylp-alpha-L-Araf attached to the O-3 of the nonreducing end of xylobiose has not been described previously. New information on substitution of AX from various cereal by-products was obtained by combining NMR and enzyme-assisted HPAEC-PAD analysis.
19850509	The emerging complexity of plant endocytic systems puts it on a par with their animal counterparts, reflecting an essential role in signal transduction. The endocytic machinery regulates the space and the time of signal transduction and processing in the cell. Plants possess numerous cell surface receptor-like kinases (RLKs) (more than 600 members in Arabidopsis thaliana and 1100 in rice), a trend attributed to their indeterminate mode of growth, the absence of cell migration, and the need for adaptation towards the environment. Thus, plants would require a robust and highly plastic endocytic system in order to integrate multiple signaling cues from neighboring cells as well as the environment. Although a comprehensive understanding of how plant endocytosis impacts signaling pathways is still lacking, experimental evidence suggests that both plant and animal endosomal systems extensively control signaling.
19850910	Expression profiling of the 5' ends of uncapped mRNAs ("degradome" sequencing) can be used to empirically catalog microRNA (miRNA) targets, to probe patterns of miRNA hairpin processing, to examine mRNA decay, and to analyze accumulation of endogenous short interfering RNA (siRNA) precursors. We sequenced and analyzed the degradome of the moss Physcomitrella patens, an important model system for functional genomic analyses in plant evolution. A total of 52 target mRNAs of 27 different Physcomitrella miRNA families were identified. Many targets of both more conserved and less conserved miRNA families encoded putative regulatory proteins. Remnants of MIRNA hairpin processing also populated the degradome data and indicated an unusual "loop-first" mode of precise processing for the MIR319 gene family. Precise loop-first processing was confirmed for native Physcomitrella, rice, and Arabidopsis MIR319 hairpins, as well as an Arabidopsis artificial MIRNA (aMIRNA) based upon a MIR319 backbone. MIR319 is thus a conserved exception to the general rule of loop-last processing of MIRNA hairpins. Loop-first MIR319 processing may contribute to the high efficacy of a widely used MIR319-based strategy for aMIRNA production in plants.
19851796	The earliness per se gene Eps-A (m) 1 from diploid wheat Triticum monococcum affects heading time, spike development, and spikelet number. In this study, the Eps1 orthologous regions from rice, Aegilops tauschii, and Brachypodium distachyon were compared as part of current efforts to clone this gene. A single Brachypodium BAC clone spanned the Eps-A (m) 1 region, but a gap was detected in the A. tauschii physical map. Sequencing of the Brachypodium and A. tauschii BAC clones revealed three genes shared by the three species, which showed higher identity between wheat and Brachypodium than between them and rice. However, most of the structural changes were detected in the wheat lineage. These included an inversion encompassing the wg241-VatpC region and the presence of six unique genes. In contrast, only one unique gene (and one pseudogene) was found in Brachypodium and none in rice. Three genes were present in both Brachypodium and wheat but were absent in rice. Two of these genes, Mot1 and FtsH4, were completely linked to the earliness per se phenotype in the T. monococcum high-density genetic map and are candidates for Eps-A (m) 1. Both genes were expressed in apices and developing spikes, as expected for Eps-A (m) 1 candidates. The predicted MOT1 protein showed amino acid differences between the parental T. monococcum lines, but its effect is difficult to predict. Future steps to clone the Eps-A (m) 1 gene include the generation of mot1 and ftsh4 mutants and the completion of the T. monococcum physical map to test for the presence of additional candidate genes.
19851874	The control of seed germination under environmental conditions, where plants will be grown, is important for the adaptability of plants. Low-temperature is one of the most common environmental stress factors that affect plant growth and development and places a major limit on crop productivity in cultivated areas. Previously, qLTG3-1, a major quantitative trait locus controlling low-temperature tolerance at the germination stage in rice (called low-temperature germinability) was identified, which encodes a protein of unknown function. To identify genes targeted by qLTG3-1, a genome-wide expression profiling analysis using the 44 K Rice Oligo microarray was performed. Because the expression of qLTG3-1 was dramatically increased at 1 day after incubation, the expression profiles at this time were compared between Hayamasari, which has a loss-of-function qLTG3-1 allele, and a near isogenic line with a functional allele. A total of 4,587 genes showed significant differences between their expression levels in the two lines. Most of these genes might be involved in the process of seed germination itself, and then a focus was made on qLTG3-1 dependently induced or suppressed genes, defined as 'qLTG3-1 dependent' genes. Twenty-nine 'qLTG3-1 dependent' genes with diverse functions were categorized, implying that disruption of cellular homeostasis leads to a wide range of metabolic alterations and diverse cross-talk between various signaling pathways. In particular, genes involved in defense responses were up-regulated by qLTG3-1, indicating that qLTG3-1 expression is required for the expression of defense response genes in low-temperature germinability in rice.
19852210	Chester Lamar Meek (1944-2000), 2009 AMCA Memorial Lecture Honoree, was husband to Sharon Kay Meek, father of Bradley Lamar and Jody Keith, and a member of the faculty of Louisiana State University for 25 years when he passed away on June 27, 2000, while conducting field research on mosquitoes in Cleveland, Mississippi. Dr. Meek was born in Monticello, Arkansas, and attended Ouachita Baptist University, University of Arkansas, and Texas A&M University, where he took his B.S., M.S., and Ph.D., respectively. He was an expert in the biology and control of rice-field mosquitoes and in forensic entomology. He served in the medical service corps of the US Army, authored or co-authored over 65 scientific publications, and was mentor to graduate students in medical and forensic entomology. Dr. Meek was a member of the Louisiana Mosquito Control Association, the Texas Mosquito Control Association, the American Mosquito Control Association, the Entomological Society of America, the American Registry of Professional Entomologists, and the Society for Vector Ecology. He received the American Mosquito Control Association's awards for Meritorious Service (1986) and the Memorial Lectureship Award (1991) and was recognized for his service by the Louisiana Mosquito Control Association with the 1989 Hathaway-Ritter Distinguished Achievement award.
19852889	Hyperlipidemia is a risk factor for the development of coronary heart disease. Many patients decline prescription lipid-lowering agents and opt instead for supplements. Before any supplement can be routinely recommended it is crucial to examine the types of clinical trials that have been performed, the mechanism by which a supplement is felt to alter lipids, the population studied, potential adverse effects, and the possibility that investigators might be biased. Clinical trial evidence strongly supports the notion that both red yeast rice and plant stanols and sterols effectively lower low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Preliminary evidence supports the possibility that green tea catechins and black tea theaflavins may lower LDL. Data do not support an LDL-lowering claim for guggulipid, policosanol, or cinnamon. Finally, there is strong clinical trial evidence suggesting that marine omega-3 fatty acids lower triglycerides.
19853366	Rapid urbanization and industrialization in southern Jiangsu Province have consumed a huge amount of arable land. Through comparative analysis of land cover maps derived from TM images in 1990, 2000 and 2006, we identified the trend of arable land loss. It is found that most arable land is lost to urbanization and rural settlements development. Urban settlements, rural settlements, and industrial park-mine-transport land increased, respectively, by 87 997 ha (174.65%), 81 041 ha (104.52%), and 12 692 ha (397.99%) from 1990 to 2006. Most of the source (e.g., change from) land covers are rice paddy fields and dryland. These two covers contributed to newly urbanized areas by 37.12% and 73.52% during 1990-2000, and 46.39% and 38.86% during 2000-2006. However, the loss of arable land is weakly correlated with ecological service value, per capita net income of farmers, but positively with grain yield for some counties. Most areas in the study site have a low arable land depletion rate and a high potential for sustainable development. More attention should be directed at those counties that have a high depletion rate but a low potential for sustainable development. Rural settlements should be controlled and rationalized through legislative measures to achieve harmonious development between urban and rural areas, and sustainable development for rural areas with a minimal impact on the ecoenvironment.
19853963	Cadmium (Cd) is a non-essential heavy metal that is recognized as a major environmental pollutant. While Cd responses and toxicities in some plant species have been well established, there are few reports about the effects of short-term exposure to Cd on rice, a model monocotyledonous plant, at the proteome level. To investigate the effect of Cd in rice, we monitored the influence of Cd exposure on root and leaf proteomes. After Cd treatment, root and leaf tissues were separately collected and leaf proteins were fractionated with polyethylene glycol. Differentially regulated proteins were selected after image analysis and identified using MALDI-TOF MS. A total of 36 proteins were up- or down-regulated following Cd treatment. As expected, total glutathione levels were significantly decreased in Cd-treated roots, and approximately half of the up-regulated proteins in roots were involved in responses to oxidative stress. These results suggested that prompt antioxidative responses might be necessary for the reduction of Cd-induced oxidative stress in roots but not in leaves. In addition, RNA gel blot analysis showed that the proteins identified in the proteomic analysis were also differentially regulated at the transcriptional level. Collectively, our study provides insights into the integrated molecular mechanisms of early responses to Cd in rice.
19854143	This study was carried out to determine knowledge, perceptions and practices of farming communities on linkages between agriculture and malaria in Mvomero District in Tanzania. A total of 661 adult males and females were interviewed using a structured questionnaire. Most respondents (85.6%) were engaged in crop production. Significantly, a larger proportion (55.2%) of the respondents had primary school education (P<0.001). Majority (88.2%) respondents described malaria as the most important public health problem. However, only 48.2% of the respondents had high knowledge of malaria. The level of knowledge on malaria was associated with level of education of the respondent. Those who had attended at least primary school education were more knowledgeable that those without formal education. A significantly larger proportion (67%) of the respondents experienced most malaria episodes during the rainy season (P<0.001). Respondents with low knowledge on malaria experienced 2.3 times more malaria cases in their households than those with higher knowledge. Respondents with low knowledge preferred to seek care from health facilities (OR: 7.28) than those with high knowledge (OR: 0.15). Rice farming was significantly associated with malaria transmission compared to either maize or sugarcane farming (P<0.001). Cattle, sheep and goats were the domestic animals most frequently incriminated to create aquatic habitats for mosquito breeding. Householders with formal education (OR: 4.6, CI: 1.33-15.89, P-value=0.016) and higher knowledge (OR: 1.7, CI: 1.15-2.55, P-value=0.008) reported to incur large losses when having a malaria case than those without education/low knowledge. Majority (60.2%) of the respondent owned at least an insecticide treated mosquito net (ITN). Respondents with higher knowledge of malaria were likely to own at least an ITN than those with low knowledge (P<0.001). In conclusion, the knowledge on malaria and its linkage with agriculture among farming communities in Mvomero District is low. Malaria is a complex health problem and its control approach needs understanding of the environmental factors associated with agricultural practices. It therefore is important that education and communication messages on malaria targeting farming communities take into consideration local agricultural practices.
19854469	Water drainage is considered to be one of the important practices that reduce the CH(4) efflux from paddy fields. In this study, four different drainage systems (continuous flooding, tillering stage drainage, mid-season drainage and multiple drainage) were compared to find out the best one, for attenuation of CH(4) emission from rice fields. Except for continuous flooding, from all the other three drainage systems, irrigation water from the paddy fields was drained out at the different stages of the crop cycle. Highest efflux of the methane was recorded from continuously flooded plots (346.6 mg/m(2)/day), followed by 9% less CH(4) efflux from tillering stage drainage (315.1mg/m(2)/day), 36.7% less efflux from mid-season drainage (219.3mg/m(2)/day) and the least 41% CH(4) efflux from multiple drainage plots (204.7 mg/m(2)/day). Among all the four different drainage systems applied, mid-season drainage and multiple drainage were found to be highly effective in mitigating methane efflux. Redox potential of the soil of the drainage system was found to be inversely proportional to the methane efflux from all the treatments.
19854933	Proteins often have several motifs with distinct evolutionary histories. Proteins with similar motifs have similar biochemical properties and thus related biological functions. We constructed a unique comparative genomics database termed the SALAD database (http://salad.dna.affrc.go.jp/salad/) from plant-genome-based proteome data sets. We extracted evolutionarily conserved motifs by MEME software from 209,529 protein-sequence annotation groups selected by BLASTP from the proteome data sets of 10 species: rice, sorghum, Arabidopsis thaliana, grape, a lycophyte, a moss, 3 algae, and yeast. Similarity clustering of each protein group was performed by pairwise scoring of the motif patterns of the sequences. The SALAD database provides a user-friendly graphical viewer that displays a motif pattern diagram linked to the resulting bootstrapped dendrogram for each protein group. Amino-acid-sequence-based and nucleotide-sequence-based phylogenetic trees for motif combination alignment, a logo comparison diagram for each clade in the tree, and a Pfam-domain pattern diagram are also available. We also developed a viewer named 'SALAD on ARRAYs' to view arbitrary microarray data sets of paralogous genes linked to the same dendrogram in a window. The SALAD database is a powerful tool for comparing protein sequences and can provide valuable hints for biological analysis.
19855938	Although the possible cellular roles of several ubiquitin-specific proteases (UBPs) were identified in Arabidopsis, almost nothing is known about UBP homologs in rice, a monocot model plant. In this report, we searched the rice genome database (http://signal.salk.edu/cgi-bin/RiceGE) and identified 21 putative UBP family members (OsUBPs) in the rice genome. These OsUBP genes each contain a ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase (UCH) domain with highly conserved Cys and His boxes and were subdivided into 9 groups based on their sequence identities and domain structures. RT-PCR analysis indicated that rice OsUBP genes are expressed at varying degrees in different rice tissues. We isolated a full-length cDNA clone for OsUBP6, which possesses not only a UCH domain, but also an N-terminal ubiquitin motif. Bacterially expressed OsUBP6 was capable of dismantling K48-linked tetraubiquitin chains in vitro. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR indicated that OsUBP6 is constitutively expressed in different tissues of rice plants. An in vivo targeting experiment showed that OsUBP6 is predominantly localized to the nucleus in onion epidermal cells. We also examined how knock-out of OsUBP6 affects developmental growth of rice plants. Although homozygous T3 osubp6 T-DNA insertion mutant seedlings displayed slower growth relative to wild type seedlings, mature mutant plants appeared to be normal. These results raise the possibility that loss of OsUBP6 is functionally compensated for by an as-yet unknown OsUBP homolog during later stages of development in rice plants.
19855939	Mitogen activated protein kinase (MAPK) are known to get activated during various stress signals and transduce the message from the cell membrane to the nucleus for appropriate cellular reorganization. Though, a certain basal activity of MAPK is often observed in the control plants. Prolonged exposure of rice plants to lowered or elevated temperature exhibited a rhythm in the activation of MAPKs. We analyzed existence of a possible endogenous rhythm in the activity of MAPKs in rice plants. The plants growing at constant temperature entrained in 16/8 h day-night cycle showed diurnal rhythm in activity. When the activation of MAPK was tested under continuous conditions by shifting plants to continuous darkness for a period of 72 h, the periodic rhythm persisted and followed a circadian pattern. Analysis of the transcripts of group A, B and C members of MAPKs under above conditions by quantitative real time PCR revealed that the members of group C exhibit periodic rhythm. Our data indicates that the MAP kinase activity in rice follows rhythmic expression in a circadian manner.
19856189	Retrotransposons are mobile genetic elements, ubiquitous in Eukaryotic genomes, which have proven to be major genetic tools in determining phylogeny and structuring genetic diversity, notably in plants. We investigate here the diversity of the Ty1-copia retrotransposon Tos17 in the cultivated rice of Asian origin (Oryza sativa L.) and related AA genome species of the Oryza genus, to contribute understanding of the complex evolutionary history in this group of species through that of the element in the lineages. In that aim, we used a combination of Southern hybridization with a reverse transcriptase (RT) probe and an adapter-PCR mediated amplification, which allowed the sequencing of the genomic regions flanking Tos17 insertions. This analysis was carried out in a collection of 47 A-genome Oryza species accessions and 202 accessions of a core collection of Oryza sativa L. representative of the diversity of the species. Our Southern hybridization results show that Tos17 is present in all the accessions of the A-genome Oryza species, except for the South American species O. glumaepatula and the African species O. glaberrima and O. breviligulata. In O. sativa, the number of putative copies of Tos17 per accession ranged from 1 to 11 and multivariate analysis based on presence/absence of putative copies yielded a varietal clustering which is consistent with the isozyme classification of rice. Adapter PCR amplification and sequencing of flanking regions of Tos17 insertions in A-genome species other than O. sativa, followed by anchoring on the Nipponbare genome sequence, revealed 13 insertion sites of Tos17 in the surveyed O. rufipogon and O. longistaminata accessions, including one shared by both species. In O. sativa, the same approach revealed 25 insertions in the 6 varietal groups. Four insertion sites located on chromosomes 1, 2, 10, and 11 were found orthologous in O. rufipogon and O. sativa. The chromosome 1 insertion was also shared between O. rufipogon and O. longistaminata. The presence of Tos17 at three insertion sites was confirmed by retrotransposon-based insertion polymorphism (RBIP) in a sample of O. sativa accessions. The first insertion, located on chromosome 3 was only found in two japonica accessions from the Bhutan region while the second insertion, located on chromosome 10 was specific to the varietal groups 1, 2, and 5. The third insertion located on chromosome 7 corresponds to the only insertion shown active in rice so far, notably in cv. Nipponbare, where it has been extensively used for insertion mutagenesis. This copy was only found in a few varieties of the japonica group 6 and in one group 5 accession. Taken together, these results confirm that Tos17 was probably present in the ancestor of A-genome species and that some copies of the element remained active in some Oryza lineages--notably in O. rufipogon and O. longistaminata--as well as in the indica and japonica O. sativa L. lineages.
19857523	Arthropod-borne viruses (arboviruses) are important causes of human disease nearly worldwide. All arboviruses circulate among wild animals, and many cause disease after spillover transmission to humans and agriculturally important domestic animals that are incidental or dead-end hosts. Viruses such as dengue (DENV) and chikungunya (CHIKV) that have lost the requirement for enzootic amplification now produce extensive epidemics in tropical urban centers. Many arboviruses recently have increased in importance as human and veterinary pathogens using a variety of mechanisms. Beginning in 1999, West Nile virus (WNV) underwent a dramatic geographic expansion into the Americas. High amplification associated with avian virulence coupled with adaptation for replication at higher temperatures in mosquito vectors, has caused the largest epidemic of arboviral encephalitis ever reported in the Americas. Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), the most frequent arboviral cause of encephalitis worldwide, has spread throughout most of Asia and as far south as Australia from its putative origin in Indonesia and Malaysia. JEV has caused major epidemics as it invaded new areas, often enabled by rice culture and amplification in domesticated swine. Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV), another arbovirus that infects humans after amplification in domesticated animals, undergoes epizootic transmission during wet years following droughts. Warming of the Indian Ocean, linked to the El Niño-Southern Oscillation in the Pacific, leads to heavy rainfall in east Africa inundating surface pools and vertically infected mosquito eggs laid during previous seasons. Like WNV, JEV and RVFV could become epizootic and epidemic in the Americas if introduced unintentionally via commerce or intentionally for nefarious purposes. Climate warming also could facilitate the expansion of the distributions of many arboviruses, as documented for bluetongue viruses (BTV), major pathogens of ruminants. BTV, especially BTV-8, invaded Europe after climate warming and enabled the major midge vector to expand is distribution northward into southern Europe, extending the transmission season and vectorial capacity of local midge species. Perhaps the greatest health risk of arboviral emergence comes from extensive tropical urbanization and the colonization of this expanding habitat by the highly anthropophilic (attracted to humans) mosquito, Aedes aegypti. These factors led to the emergence of permanent endemic cycles of urban DENV and CHIKV, as well as seasonal interhuman transmission of yellow fever virus. The recent invasion into the Americas, Europe and Africa by Aedes albopictus, an important CHIKV and secondary DENV vector, could enhance urban transmission of these viruses in tropical as well as temperate regions. The minimal requirements for sustained endemic arbovirus transmission, adequate human viremia and vector competence of Ae. aegypti and/or Ae. albopictus, may be met by two other viruses with the potential to become major human pathogens: Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus, already an important cause of neurological disease in humans and equids throughout the Americas, and Mayaro virus, a close relative of CHIKV that produces a comparably debilitating arthralgic disease in South America. Further research is needed to understand the potential of these and other arboviruses to emerge in the future, invade new geographic areas, and become important public and veterinary health problems.
19858118	Episodes of high temperature at anthesis, which in rice is the most sensitive stage to temperature, are expected to occur more frequently in future climates. The morphology of the reproductive organs and pollen number, and changes in anther protein expression, were studied in response to high temperature at anthesis in three rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes. Plants were exposed to 6 h of high (38 degrees C) and control (29 degrees C) temperature at anthesis and spikelets collected for morphological and proteomic analysis. Moroberekan was the most heat-sensitive genotype (18% spikelet fertility at 38 degrees C), while IR64 (48%) and N22 (71%) were moderately and highly heat tolerant, respectively. There were significant differences among the genotypes in anther length and width, apical and basal pore lengths, apical pore area, and stigma and pistil length. Temperature also affected some of these traits, increasing anther pore size and reducing stigma length. Nonetheless, variation in the number of pollen on the stigma could not be related to measured morphological traits. Variation in spikelet fertility was highly correlated (r=0.97, n=6) with the proportion of spikelets with > or = 20 germinated pollen grains on the stigma. A 2D-gel electrophoresis showed 46 protein spots changing in abundance, of which 13 differentially expressed protein spots were analysed by MS/MALDI-TOF. A cold and a heat shock protein were found significantly up-regulated in N22, and this may have contributed to the greater heat tolerance of N22. The role of differentially expressed proteins and morphology during anther dehiscence and pollination in shaping heat tolerance and susceptibility is discussed.
1985874	The relation between dietary indicators and the risk of cancer of the oral cavity and pharynx was investigated in a case-control study conducted in Pordenone province, north-east Italy, on 302 cases (266 males and 36 females) and 699 controls admitted to hospital for acute, non-neoplastic and non-digestive disorders. Positive associations were observed, after allowing for occupation, smoking and drinking habits, with more frequent consumption of pasta or rice, polenta, cheese, eggs and pulses (odds ratios - ORs = 1.6, 2.1, 1.9, 1.9 and 2.0 for highest vs. lowest tertile), whereas reduced ORs emerged in subjects reporting more frequent consumption of carrots, fresh tomatoes and green peppers (ORs = 0.6, 0.5 and 0.5, respectively). Higher frequency of daily meals was also associated with a significantly elevated OR (1.7 for greater than or equal to 4 vs. less than or equal to 2 meals). The role of various indicator foods must be assessed in the context of the very high levels of alcohol consumption in the study area (greater than or equal to 8 alcoholic drinks/day in 2/3 cancer cases).
19860157	Zinc deficiency is a problem in developing countries and not least so in Africa. This concerns both agriculture and human food provision. Zinc deficiency in soils may severely decrease yields, whereas insufficient zinc in food intake primarily affects the immune defense, notably in children. The present investigation concerned zinc availability in soils, crops, and food in the Niger inland delta in Mali. Agricultural soils are largely deficient in plant-available zinc, however, soils in close vicinity to habitation show elevated zinc concentrations. The zinc concentrations in crops are low; in rice, they are about half of reference ranges. Zinc intake assessed from a number of sampled meals was about half the recommended requirement. When zinc concentration is higher phytate was also high, which made the zinc less available. In spite of a recorded sufficient intake of iron, anemia is common and is most likely because of the high phytate concentration in the cereal-dominated diet. Increasing zinc and iron availability would be possible through the use of malting, fermentation, and soaking in food preparation. Finally, in the long run, any trace element deficiency, especially that of zinc in agricultural soils needs to be amended by addition of appropriate amounts in commercial fertilizers.
19860468	Zn deficiency is a common disease leading to memory impairment with increasing age. This study evaluated the protection effects of red mold rice (RMR) administration and Zn supplementation against memory and learning ability impairments from oxidative stress caused by Zn deficiency. Rats (4 weeks old) were induced to be Zn deficiency by a Zn-deficient diet for 12 weeks. After that, rats were administered Zn, 1xRMR, 5xRMR, and various dosages of RMR plus Zn, respectively. Decreases of antioxidant enzyme activities in the hippocampus and cortex were observed, and the levels of Ca, Fe, and Mg were increased in the hippocampus and cortex of Zn-deficient rats, leading to memory and learning ability injury. However, the administration of RMR (1- or 5-fold dosage) and with or without Zn significantly improved the antioxidase and neural activity to maintain cortex and hippocampus functions. This study demonstrates that RMR is a possible functional food for the prevention or cure of neural injury associated with Zn deficiency.
19860896	Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium) has been recognized as a new model species for comparative and functional genomics of cereal and bioenergy crops because it possesses many biological attributes desirable in a model, such as a small genome size, short stature, self-pollinating habit, and short generation cycle. To maximize the utility of Brachypodium as a model for basic and applied research it is necessary to develop genomic resources for it. A BAC-based physical map is one of them. A physical map will facilitate analysis of genome structure, comparative genomics, and assembly of the entire genome sequence. A total of 67,151 Brachypodium BAC clones were fingerprinted with the SNaPshot HICF fingerprinting method and a genome-wide physical map of the Brachypodium genome was constructed. The map consisted of 671 contigs and 2,161 clones remained as singletons. The contigs and singletons spanned 414 Mb. A total of 13,970 gene-related sequences were detected in the BAC end sequences (BES). These gene tags aligned 345 contigs with 336 Mb of rice genome sequence, showing that Brachypodium and rice genomes are generally highly colinear. Divergent regions were mainly in the rice centromeric regions. A dot-plot of Brachypodium contigs against the rice genome sequences revealed remnants of the whole-genome duplication caused by paleotetraploidy, which were previously found in rice and sorghum. Brachypodium contigs were anchored to the wheat deletion bin maps with the BES gene-tags, opening the door to Brachypodium-Triticeae comparative genomics. The construction of the Brachypodium physical map, and its comparison with the rice genome sequence demonstrated the utility of the SNaPshot-HICF method in the construction of BAC-based physical maps. The map represents an important genomic resource for the completion of Brachypodium genome sequence and grass comparative genomics. A draft of the physical map and its comparisons with rice and wheat are available at http://phymap.ucdavis.edu/brachypodium/.
19861556	Programmed cell death (PCD) plays a pivotal role in plant development and defense. To investigate the interaction between PCD and R gene-mediated defense, we used the 22K Barley1 GeneChip to compare and contrast time-course expression profiles of Blumeria graminis f. sp hordei (Bgh) challenged barley (Hordeum vulgare) cultivar C.I. 16151 (harboring the Mla6 powdery mildew resistance allele) and its fast neutron-derived Bgh-induced tip cell death1 mutant, bcd1. Mixed linear model analysis identified genes associated with the cell death phenotype as opposed to R gene-mediated resistance. One-hundred fifty genes were found at the threshold P value < 0.0001 and a false discovery rate <0.6%. Of these, 124 were constitutively overexpressed in the bcd1 mutant. Gene Ontology and rice (Oryza sativa) alignment-based annotation indicated that 68 of the 124 overexpressed genes encode ribosomal proteins. A deletion harboring six genes on chromosome 5H cosegregates with bcd1-specified cell death and is associated with misprocessing of rRNAs but segregates independent of R gene-mediated resistance. Barley stripe mosaic virus-induced gene silencing of one of the six deleted genes, RRP46 (rRNA-processing protein 46), phenocopied bcd1-mediated tip cell death. These findings suggest that RRP46, a critical component of the exosome core, mediates RNA processing and degradation involved in cell death initiation as a result of attempted penetration by Bgh during the barley-powdery mildew interaction but is independent of gene-for-gene resistance.
19861638	The nucleotide sequences of regulatory elements from homologous genes can be strongly divergent. Phylogenetic footprinting, a comparative analysis of noncoding regions, can detect putative transcription factor binding sites (TFBSs) shared among the regulatory regions of 2 or more homologous genes. These conserved motifs have the potential to serve the same regulatory function in distantly related taxa. We isolated the 5'-noncoding region of the OrcPI gene, a MADS-box transcription factor involved in flower development in Orchis italica, using the thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction technique. This region (comprising 1352 bp) induced transient beta-glucuronidase expression in the petal tissue of white Rosa hybrida flowers and represents the 5'-regulatory sequence of the OrcPI gene. Phylogenetic footprinting analysis detected conserved regions within the 5'-regulatory sequence of OrcPI and the homologous regions of Oryza sativa, Lilium regale, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Some of these sequences are known TFBSs described in databases of plant regulatory elements. Nucleotide sequence data reported are available in the DDBJ/EMBL/GenBank databases under the following accession numbers: AF198055 promoter region of the PISTILLATA (PI) gene of A. thaliana; AB094985 cDNA of OrcPI (PI/GLOBOSA [PI/GLO] homologue) of O. italica; AB378089 5'-regulatory region of the OrcPI gene of O. italica; AP008211 putative promoter region of OSMADS2 (PI/GLO homologue) of O. sativa; AP008207 putative promoter region of OSMADS4 (PI/GLO homologue) of O. sativa; and AB158292 putative promoter region of the PI/GLO homologue of L. regale.
19862676	Atypical mycobacterial tenosynovitis of the wrist can easily be misdiagnosed as synovial chondromatosis. Both sonography and magnetic resonance imaging plays an important role in depicting "rice bodies" within the distended tendon sheaths and bursae of atypical mycobacterial infection. An endemic place for Mycobacterium species and the occupation of the patient should raise the suspicion for the disease. Polymerase chain reaction of the distended tendon fluid is a sensitive, specific and rapid method in identification of the mycobacteria.
19862810	The reaction of H radical with C(2)H(5)CN has been studied using various quantum chemistry methods. The geometries were optimized at the B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) and B3LYP/6-311++G(2d,2p) levels. The single-point energies were calculated using G3 and BMC-CCSD methods based on B3LYP/6-311++G(2d,2p) geometries. Four mechanisms were investigated, namely, hydrogen abstraction, C-addition/elimination, N-addition/elimination and substitution. The kinetics of this reaction were studied using the transition state theory and multichannel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus methodologies over a wide temperature range of 200-3000 K. The calculated results indicate that C-addition/elimination channel is the most feasible over the whole temperature range. The deactivation of initial adduct C(2)H(5)CHN is dominant at lower temperature with bath gas H(2) of 760 Torr; whereas C(2)H(5)+HCN is the dominant product at higher temperature. Our calculated rate constants are in good agreement with the available experimental data.
19864426	Plant NADPH oxidases (Rboh, for respiratory burst oxidase homolog) produce reactive oxygen species that are key regulators of various cellular events including plant innate immunity. Rbohs possess a highly conserved cytoplasmic N-terminal region containing two EF-hand motifs that regulate Rboh activity. Rice (Oryza sativa) RbohB (OsRbohB) is regulated by the direct binding of a small GTPase (Rac1) to this regulatory region as well as by Ca(2+) binding to the EF-hands. Here, we present the atomic structure of the N-terminal region of OsRbohB. The structure reveals that OsRbohB forms a unique dimer stabilized by swapping the EF-hand motifs. We identified two additional EF-hand-like motifs that were not predicted from sequence data so far. These EF-hand-like motifs together with the swapped EF-hands form a structure similar to that found in calcineurin B. We observed conformational changes mediated by Ca(2+) binding to only one EF-hand. Structure-based in vitro pulldown assays and NMR titration experiments defined the OsRac1 binding interface within the coiled-coil region created by swapping the EF-hands. In addition, we demonstrate a direct intramolecular interaction between the N and C terminus, and that the complete N-terminal cytoplasmic region is required for this interaction. The structural features and intramolecular interactions characterized here might be common elements shared by Rbohs that contribute to the regulation of reactive oxygen species production.
19868684	Counts of the number of white blood cells at short intervals after the ingestion of a meal (meat, eggs, milk, rice, or butter) in normal individuals and in a number of asthmatics reveal the following facts. As a rule, a sharp fall in the leucocytic curve occurs within 1 or 2 minutes after the meal; generally the curve rises within 10 to 20 minutes, but often a second fall follows 30 to 50 minutes after the meal. This may be followed by a slow rise in the curve (physiological leucocytosis). The first sharp fall is often accompanied by a similar decrease in red cells, the leucocytic formula is not changed, the blood pressure also remains unchanged, and this makes it probable that the leucopenia observed is only a manifestation of a change in distribution of the blood in different regions of the body. Not infrequently the leucocyte curve after ingestion of food shows a form differing considerably from that described above. Counts of white cells made at intervals of 20 minutes in the same patient at different times but after ingestion of the same food show very different leucocytic curves. Such counts do not give evidence of the existence of a crise hémoclasique and consequently cannot be used to identify the causative agent of cases of hypersensitiveness to foodstuffs or drugs. Whether such an identification can be obtained if instead of simply counting white cells the whole complex of symptoms originally described by Widal as characteristic for a crise hémoclasique is used, remains undetermined by our work.
19869956	1. The histological changes of the bone marrow in fasted and rice disease pigeons are essentially the same. 2. The histological changes of the bone marrow in pure vitamin B deficiency consist of degeneration and edema and slight endothelial proliferation of the small vascular channels, but with active hematopoiesis. 3. The anemia of rice disease in pigeons is in large part a starvation anemia and not directly related to vitamin B deficiency.
19870610	When blood plasma proteins are depleted by bleeding, with return of washed red cells (plasmapheresis), it is possible to bring dogs to a steady state of low plasma protein in the circulation and a uniform plasma protein production on a basal diet. Such dogs become test subjects by which the effect of various factors on plasma protein regeneration can be measured. Dogs previously the subjects of plasmapheresis, during long rest periods appear to increase their stores of plasma protein building materials and their blood plasma protein concentrations above former normal levels. A sterile abscess (turpentine) induces a marked reduction in plasma protein regeneration in these test dogs consuming an ample basal diet. The sharp reduction during the initial 24 hours may in part reflect an extravasation of plasma protein into the injured tissue but there also appears to develop a true disturbance of the mechanism which produces plasma proteins. Digestive disturbances interfere seriously with plasma protein production. Whereas large quantities of live yeast upset digestion and form no plasma protein, autoclaved yeast is well utilized, having a potency ratio of 4.4. Amino acids have been tested inadequately. A mixture of cystine, glutamic acid, and glycine does seem to have a definite effect upon protein metabolism and plasma protein production. Iron, under the conditions of these experiments, does not influence the output of plasma proteins. Liver extract (parenteral) is also inert. The proteins of red blood cells when added to the diet are poorly utilized for plasma protein formation and show a potency ratio of only 10.1. Kidney protein added to the kidney basal diet shows a potency ratio of about 5 as compared with 4.6 for that basal diet. A digest of beef stomach and rice polishings shows a potency ratio of about 7.9. Dried powdered serum shows a potency ratio of 3.5, which is much less than fresh serum (2.6). Powdered thyroid fed in doses sufficient to accelerate body metabolism shows no distinct effect upon plasma protein production not attributable to the protein in the thyroid powder itself. Long periods (25 to 30 weeks) of plasma depletion and basal diet intake remove much protein from body fluids and tissues. Associated with this protein depletion the dog loses its appetite and may vomit some food. There is loss of hair, a tendency to skin ulceration, and a distinct lowering of resistance to infection. The plasma protein output may fall to fasting levels in spite of food intake sufficient to maintain weight. We believe this condition to be a deficiency state related to severe depletion of the essential protein matrix of the body cells.
19870827	Young rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) were given a diet containing casein, polished rice, whole wheat, salt mixture, sodium chloride, cod liver oil, and ascorbic acid. They developed a syndrome characterized by anemia, leukopenia, and loss of weight. Ulceration of the gums and diarrhea were common, and death occurred between the 26th and 100th day. 4 monkeys were given the deficient diet supplemented with 1 mg. of riboflavin daily, and these developed the characteristic signs and died. in periods of time similar to the survival of monkeys receiving the deficient diet alone. Nicotinic acid, either alone or in combination with riboflavin and thiamin chloride, failed to alter appreciably the course of the deficiency manifestations. Thus, it is evident that this nutritional cytopenia is not the result of a deficiency of vitamin B, riboflavin, or nicotinic acid. The deficient diet supplemented with either 10 gm. of dried brewers' yeast or 2 gm. of liver extract (Cohn fraction G) daily supported good growth, permitted normal body development, and maintained a normal blood picture over long periods. It is obvious that yeast and liver extract contain a substance essential to the nutrition of the monkey which is not identical with any of those factors of the vitamin B complex that have been chemically identified. We have proposed the term vitamin M for this factor which prevents nutritional cytopenia in the monkey.
19871247	Crude linoleic acid incorporated with or without butter yellow in a synthetic diet proved to be toxic for rats. The toxic effect manifested itself in loss of weight, progressive anemia of the secondary type, leucopenia, and pediculosis. It could be neutralized preventively and therapeutically by administration of yeast. The toxicity of the diet containing linoleic acid appears to be due to oxidative break-down products of the unsaturated fatty acid. The color of the same diet when it contained crude linoleic acid supplemented with butter yellow faded progressively in the presence of air (O(2)), even at room temperature. Purified preparations of linoleic acid and, to a less degree, purified preparations of arachidonic and oleic acids have shown the same destructive effect on butter yellow in vitro. Brown (unpolished) or white rice contains a stabilizer (antioxidant) for the preservation of butter yellow. In experiments on the production of hepatoma in rats following the ingestion of butter yellow, rice on one hand and crisco or butter fat on the other hand have proved to be procarcinogenic. These results would seem to be correlated with the preservation of butter yellow in the diet and in the intestine, because of the antioxidant in rice and the low supply of unsaturated fatty acids,respectively.
19871410	The presence of fat in the diet accelerates the production of hepatic tumors by p-dimethylaminoazobenzene (butter yellow), and when its quantity is very small, few are produced. Butter yellow with diets consisting in large part of rice, or with other diets with low protein content, causes nodular cirrhosis, but, rice substituted for sugar in a diet containing protein, fat, and butter yellow with adequate vitamins accelerates the production of tumors though the added rice is insufficient to induce nodular cirrhosis. Rice favors the production of hepatic tumors by agencies that are not yet explained. Butter yellow produces hepatic tumors in the absence of cirrhosis, but with diets that produce cirrhosis, the frequency of tumors and of their precursors, cystic ducts and cholangiofibrosis, increases with the severity of cirrhosis.
19872096	The confused flour beetle (Tribolium confusum) was chosen for this study because it lives in a food which ordinarily contains no living organisms. The death rates are greater in cultures which are handled daily than in those which are not handled but when all are handled alike the results are comparable. The results from experiments with individual beetles in various kinds of flour were plotted with instars (larval stages) on the ordinate and time in days on the abscissa, using the results from control experiments in wheat flour to determine the length of the various instars from an "x = y" formula. The curves of development were found to be straight lines throughout all but the last instar. The curve for the last instar during which the larva transformed deviated from the straight line in certain foods, notably rice flour. When mass cultures were used the death and transformation curves were plotted for each synthetic food. A comparison of the curves from wheat flour and the synthetic foods shows that the first parts of the curves are very much alike in all cases and that a few resemble the control in every respect except that the transformation curve has been moved back for a considerable time. The death curves for the mass cultures are not smooth but show sudden increase in death at approximately the times of molting. These curves may therefore be compared with the records from individual beetles.
19872128	1. The rate of forward movement in Paramecium as affected by changes in temperature can be described accurately in terms of the Arrhenius equation. See PDF for Equation 2. For the range from 6-15 degrees , micro = 16,000; from 16-40 degrees , micro = 8,000. These values fall within the limits characteristic for chemical processes. 3. On the principle of velocity control by the slowest rate, it is assumed that in Paramecium at temperatures above normal, control passes from one underlying reaction to another. 4. The views expressed by Rice, the recent results of Crozier, and certain micro values given by Arrhenius all suggest that micro = 16,000 may represent an oxidation, and micro = 8,000 either a modified oxidation or an hydrolysis. 5. For the system of controls, the catenary series O --> A --> E with the lower micro value attached to the precursor reaction is adequate. We may also assume a cyclical system analogous to Meyerhof's conception of carbohydrate metabolism in muscle. In this case it is necessary to assign micro = 16,000 to the oxidation of A and E and micro = 8,000 to the synthesis E --> O. This model also accounts for the fact that the data might be interpreted as involving, apparently, a depletion of A at the higher temperature.
19873750	OxyRxoo is a homologue of OxyR from Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the pathogen of bacterial blight of rice. To elucidate the role of OxyRxoo in detoxification of hydrogen peroxide. OxyRxoo was studied by gene cloning, sequencing, deletion,complement and phenotype analysis. Compared to those of the wild-type strain PXO99(A), there was no difference in bacterial growth in vitro of delta oxyRxoo, but delta oxyRxoo is more sensitive to H2O2 with reduced catalase activity. In the presence of H2O2, the expression of catalase genes (ahpCxoo, catBxoo, katExoo and srpAxoo) was significantly down-regulated, while the expression of oxyRxoo was up-regulated in delta oxyRxoo. OxyRxoo functions as a transcription regulator in mediating and controlling H2O2 detoxification in Xoo.
19875787	Zinc (Zn) uptake by plant roots from soils low in plant-available Zn may be increased by Zn-mobilizing rhizosphere processes, including exudation of low-molecular-weight organic anions. A rhizotron experiment with a low Zn clay soil and a nutrient solution experiment were conducted to test if this occurs in six rice (Oryza sativa L.) genotypes varying in tolerance to low Zn supply. In both experiments, low Zn supply resulted in a marked decrease in biomass production of most genotypes compared with adequate Zn supply. The genotypes showed a significant variation in Zn efficiency. Plants responded to low Zn supply with increased root exudation of malate in both experiments. The malate concentration in the rhizosphere of three genotypes ranged from 0.22 to 0.59 mmol L(-1) in rhizotron experiment, and the malate exudation rate of five genotypes ranged from 0.18 to 0.53 nmol g(-1) root dw s(-1) in the nutrient solution experiment. On average, low Zn supply in the rhizotron experiment increased rhizosphere malate concentration by 64% compared with that at adequate Zn supply. The averaged malate exudation rate at low Zn in the nutrient solution experiment was 40% greater than at adequate Zn supply. The malate exudation of rice genotypes at low Zn was not correlated to Zn efficiency or Zn uptake in either experiment. Based on a soil malate extraction experiment, the observed genotypic difference in rhizosphere malate concentration is expected to have a negligible effect on the concentration of Zn in soil solution. These findings suggest that Zn mobilization by rice genotypes cannot be explained by increased malate exudation alone, indicating that other mechanisms contribute to the variation in plant Zn uptake. The results also emphasize that effects of root exudates on soil properties need to be assessed to evaluate the role of root exudation in nutrient mobilization.
19877512	To investigate the situation of dietary intake of cadmium and provide evidence for Cd pollution prevention and control in the south area in China. Three types of local food sample, including cereals, vegetables, meat and eggs, were collected and detected for cadmium content. Dietary survey was carried out in the local resident in the same time. 140 food samples were collected from 54 households. 71.69% of rice were above the limitation of the cadmium content according the national standard. Dietary survey conducted in 262 residents showed that the main food was rice. Thus, cadmium intake from the rice was one of the major dietary sources in this area, and cadmium intake from rice was different from the age group. The average cadmium intake for one's lifetime was at least 4 g in this area. Cadmium pollution prevention and control should be focused on the food chain from crops to the human being in this contaminated area.
19877638	The contamination of infant food with substances from its packaging due to migration processes is still a problem. Most recently, great attention was paid to the migration of epoxidized soybean oil (ESBO) and phthalates from twist-off closures into baby food packed in glass jars. Besides, packaging made of recycled fiber materials such as paper and paperboard were found to be the source of contaminants in dry and powdery foodstuffs such as sugar, rice, and maize flour. In this study 20 infant food samples packed in recycled paperboard containers were tested for phthalates and diisopropyl naphthalenes (DIPN), known incorporated substances in recycled paper. Furthermore, the barrier function of different secondary packaging materials (paper and aluminum-coated foil) was investigated. The highest contents of phthalates (mainly diisobutyl phthalate, DiBP) and DIPN in infant food samples were found for those foods packed in inner bags made of paper. Migration experiments were performed under authentic conditions to evaluate possible transfer mechanism (gas phase, direct contact) of phthalate esters into foodstuff. It is shown that paper does not provide an appropriate barrier against migration of semipolar compounds such as phthalates. The air space itself otherwise effectively prevents migration of the less volatile phthalates under the applied conditions.
19878463	*Continuous planting of crops containing single disease resistance (R) genes imposes a strong selection for virulence in pathogen populations, often rendering the R gene ineffective. Increasing environmental temperatures may complicate R-gene-mediated disease control because high temperatures often promote disease development and reduce R gene effectiveness. Here, performance of one rice bacterial blight disease R gene was assessed in field and growth chamber studies to determine the influence of temperature on R gene effectiveness and durability. *Disease severity and virulence of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) populations were monitored in field plots planted to rice with and without the bacterial blight R gene Xa7 over 11 yr. The performance of Xa7 was determined in high- and low-temperature regimes in growth chambers. *Rice with Xa7 exhibited less disease than lines without Xa7 over 11 yr, even though virulence of Xoo field populations increased. Xa7 restricted disease more effectively at high than at low temperatures. Other R genes were less effective at high temperatures. *We propose that Xa7 restricts disease and Xoo population size more efficiently in high temperature cropping seasons compared with cool seasons creating fluctuating selection, thereby positively impacting durability of Xa7.
19879040	The removal of ammonium from aqueous solutions using zeolite NaY prepared from a local agricultural waste, rice husk ash waste was investigated and a naturally occurring zeolite mordenite in powdered and granulated forms was used as comparison. Zeolite NaY and mordenite were well characterized by powder X-ray diffraction (XRD), energy dispersive X-ray (EDX) analysis and the total cation exchange capacity (CEC). CEC of the zeolites were measured as 3.15, 1.46 and 1.34 meq g(-1) for zeolite Y, powdered mordenite and granular mordenite, respectively. Adsorption kinetics and equilibrium data for the removal of NH(4)(+) ions were examined by fitting the experimental data to various models. Kinetic studies showed that the adsorption followed a pseudo-second-order reaction. The equilibrium pattern fits well with the Langmuir isotherm compared to the other isotherms. The monolayer adsorption capacity for zeolite Y (42.37 mg/g) was found to be higher than that powdered mordenite (15.13 mg/g) and granular mordenite (14.56 mg/g). Thus, it can be concluded that the low cost and economical rice husk ash-synthesized zeolite NaY could be a better sorbent for ammonium removal due to its rapid adsorption rate and higher adsorption capacity compared to natural mordenite.
19880160	We examined methylmercury (MeHg) bioavailability in four of the most predominant wetland habitats in California's Central Valley agricultural region during the spring and summer: white rice, wild rice, permanent wetlands, and shallowly-flooded fallow fields. We sampled MeHg and total mercury (THg) concentrations in two aquatic macroinvertebrate taxa at the inlets, centers, and outlets of four replicated wetland habitats (8 wetlands total) during two time periods bounding the rice growing season and corresponding to flood-up and pre-harvest (96 total samples). In general, THg concentrations (mean+/-standard error) in Notonectidae (Notonecta, back swimmers; 1.18+/-0.08 microg g(-1) dry weight [dw]) were higher than in Corixidae (Corisella, water boatmen; 0.89+/-0.06 microg g(-)(1)dw, MeHg: 0.74+/-0.05 microg g(-)(1)dw). MeHg concentrations were correlated with THg concentrations in Corixidae (R(2)=0.80) and 88% of THg was in the MeHg form. Wetland habitat type had an important influence on THg concentrations in aquatic invertebrates, but this effect depended on the sampling time period and taxa. In particular, THg concentrations in Notonectidae, but not Corixidae, were higher in permanent wetlands than in white rice, wild rice, or shallowly-flooded fallow fields. THg concentrations in Notonectidae were higher at the end of the rice growing season than near the time of flood-up, whereas THg concentrations in Corixidae did not differ between time periods. The effect of wetland habitat type was more prevalent near the end of the rice growing season, when Notonectidae THg concentrations were highest in permanent wetlands. Additionally, invertebrate THg concentrations were higher at water outlets than at inlets of wetlands. Our results indicate that although invertebrate THg concentrations increased from the time of flood-up to draw-down of wetlands, temporarily flooded habitats such as white rice, wild rice, and shallowly-flooded fallow fields did not have higher THg or MeHg concentrations in invertebrates than permanent wetlands.
19880395	A highly sensitive quantitative method for assaying nicotianamine (NA) and 2'-deoxymugineic acid (DMA) using liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry (LC/ESI-TOF-MS) was developed. The amino and hydroxyl groups of NA and DMA were derivatized using 9-fluorenylmethoxycarbonyl chloride. The amounts of NA and DMA in 10 mul of xylem sap from rice cultivated under iron (Fe)-sufficient and Fe-deficient conditions were quantified without concentration. In Fe-sufficient plants, the concentrations of NA and DMA were almost equal to that of Fe. In Fe-deficient plants, the concentration of NA did not change significantly, whereas that of DMA increased markedly.
19880451	We previously showed that oral immunization of mice with a rice-based vaccine expressing cholera toxin (CT) B subunit (MucoRice-CT-B) induced CT-specific immune responses with toxin-neutralizing activity in both systemic and mucosal compartments. In this study, we examined whether the vaccine can induce CT-specific Ab responses in nonhuman primates. Orally administered MucoRice-CT-B induced high levels of CT-neutralizing serum IgG Abs in the three cynomolgus macaques we immunized. Although the Ab level gradually decreased, detectable levels were maintained for at least 6 mo, and high titers were rapidly recovered after an oral booster dose of the rice-based vaccine. In contrast, no serum IgE Abs against rice storage protein were induced even after multiple immunizations. Additionally, before immunization the macaques harbored intestinal secretory IgA (SIgA) Abs that reacted with both CT and homologous heat-labile enterotoxin produced by enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli and had toxin-neutralizing activity. The SIgA Abs were present in macaques 1 mo to 29 years old, and the level was not enhanced after oral vaccination with MucoRice-CT-B or after subsequent oral administration of the native form of CT. These results show that oral MucoRice-CT-B can effectively induce CT-specific, neutralizing, serum IgG Ab responses even in the presence of pre-existing CT- and heat-labile enterotoxin-reactive intestinal SIgA Abs in nonhuman primates.
19880610	Rice (Oryza sativa) is the staple food for over half the world's population yet may represent a significant dietary source of inorganic arsenic (As), a nonthreshold, class 1 human carcinogen. Rice grain As is dominated by the inorganic species, and the organic species dimethylarsinic acid (DMA). To investigate how As species are unloaded into grain rice, panicles were excised during grain filling and hydroponically pulsed with arsenite, arsenate, glutathione-complexed As, or DMA. Total As concentrations in flag leaf, grain, and husk, were quantified by inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy and As speciation in the fresh grain was determined by x-ray absorption near-edge spectroscopy. The roles of phloem and xylem transport were investigated by applying a +/- stem-girdling treatment to a second set of panicles, limiting phloem transport to the grain in panicles pulsed with arsenite or DMA. The results demonstrate that DMA is translocated to the rice grain with over an order magnitude greater efficiency than inorganic species and is more mobile than arsenite in both the phloem and the xylem. Phloem transport accounted for 90% of arsenite, and 55% of DMA, transport to the grain. Synchrotron x-ray fluorescence mapping and fluorescence microtomography revealed marked differences in the pattern of As unloading into the grain between DMA and arsenite-challenged grain. Arsenite was retained in the ovular vascular trace and DMA dispersed throughout the external grain parts and into the endosperm. This study also demonstrates that DMA speciation is altered in planta, potentially through complexation with thiols.
19880795	Aluminum (Al) toxicity is the major limiting factor of crop production on acid soils, but some plant species have evolved ways of detoxifying Al. Here, we report a C2H2-type zinc finger transcription factor ART1 (for Al resistance transcription factor 1), which specifically regulates the expression of genes related to Al tolerance in rice (Oryza sativa). ART1 is constitutively expressed in the root, and the expression level is not affected by Al treatment. ART1 is localized in the nucleus of all root cells. A yeast one-hybrid assay showed that ART1 has a transcriptional activation potential and interacts with the promoter region of STAR1, an important factor in rice Al tolerance. Microarray analysis revealed 31 downstream transcripts regulated by ART1, including STAR1 and 2 and a couple of homologs of Al tolerance genes in other plants. Some of these genes were implicated in both internal and external detoxification of Al at different cellular levels. Our findings shed light on comprehensively understanding how plants detoxify aluminum to survive in an acidic environment.
19881291	To screen for unauthorized genetically modified organisms (GMO) in the various crops, we developed a multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction high-resolution melting-curve analysis method for the simultaneous qualitative detection of 35S promoter sequence of cauliflower mosaic virus (35SP) and the nopaline synthase terminator (NOST) in several crops. We selected suitable primer sets for the simultaneous detection of 35SP and NOST and designed the primer set for the detection of spiked ColE1 plasmid to evaluate the validity of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analyses. In addition, we optimized the multiplex PCR conditions using the designed primer sets and EvaGreen as an intercalating dye. The contamination of unauthorized GMO with single copy similar to NK603 maize can be detected as low as 0.1% in a maize sample. Furthermore, we showed that the present method would be applicable in identifying GMO in various crops and foods like authorized GM soybean, authorized GM potato, the biscuit which is contaminated with GM soybeans and the rice which is contaminated with unauthorized GM rice. We consider this method to be a simple and reliable assay for screening for unauthorized GMO in crops and the processing food products.
19883976	A carbonaceous sorbent was prepared from rice husk via sulfuric acid treatment. Sorption of Zn(II) and Hg(II) from aqueous solution was studied varying time, pH, metal concentration, temperature and sorbent status (wet and dry). Zn(II) sorption was found fast reaching equilibrium within approximately 2h while Hg(II) sorption was slow reaching equilibrium within approximately 120 h with better performance for the wet sorbent than for the dry. Kinetics data for both metals were found to follow pseudo-second order model. Sorption rate of both metals was enhanced with temperature rise. Activation energy, E(a), for Zn(II) sorption, was approximately 13.0 kJ/mol indicating a diffusion-controlled process ion exchange process, however, for Hg(II) sorption, E(a) was approximately 54 kJ/mol indicating a chemically controlled process. Sorption of both metals was low at low pH and increased with pH increase. Sorption was much higher for Hg(II) than for Zn(II) with higher uptake for both metals by rising the temperature. Hg(II) was reduced to Hg(I) on the sorbent surface. This was confirmed from the identification of Hg(2)Cl(2) deposits on the sorbent surface by scanning electron microscopy and X-ray diffraction. However, no redox processes were observed in Zn(II) sorption. Sorption mechanism is discussed.
19884249	Accumulation of Cd in rice grain is a serious concern of food safety since rice as a staple food is a major source of Cd intake in Asian countries. However, the mechanisms controlling Cd accumulation in rice are still poorly understood. Herein, we report both physiological and genetic analysis of two rice cultivars contrasting in Cd accumulation, which were screened from a core collection of rice cultivars. The cultivar Anjana Dhan (Indica) accumulated much higher levels of Cd than Nipponbare (Japonica) in the shoots and grains when grown in both soil and solution culture. A short-term uptake experiment (20 min) showed that Cd uptake by Nipponbare was higher than that by Anjana Dhan. However, the concentration of Cd in the shoot and xylem sap was much higher in Anjana Dhan than in Nipponbare. Of the Cd taken up by the roots, <4% was translocated to the shoots in Nipponbare, compared with 10-25% in Anjana Dhan, indicating a higher root-to-shoot translocation of Cd in the latter. A quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis for Cd accumulation was performed using an F(2) population derived from Anjana Dhan and Nipponbare. A QTL with large effect for Cd accumulation was detected on the short arm of chromosome 7, explaining 85.6% of the phenotypic variance in the shoot Cd concentration of the F(2) population. High accumulation is likely to be controlled by a single recessive gene. A candidate genomic region was defined to <1.9 Mb by means of substitution mapping.
19884775	Ethanol production by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of low-value rice wine cake (RWC) without cooking was investigated. RWC is the filtered solid waste of fermented rice wine mash and contains 53% of raw starch. RWC slurry was mixed with raw-starch-digesting enzyme of Rhizopus sp. and yeast for SSF. The yeast strain used was selected from 300 strains for RWC fermentation and identified as Saccharomyces cerevisiae KV25. High efficiency (94%) of ethanol production was achieved at optimal condition of uncooked RWC slurry containing 23.03% of starch. The optimal SSF condition determined was 1.125 unit of raw-starch-digesting enzyme per one gram of RWC, 30 degrees C of fermentation temperature, 4.5 of pH slurry, 36 h-age of seeding culture, initial yeast cell 2 x 10(7) per ml slurry, 17 mM urea as nitrogen additive, 0.25 mM Cu(2+) as metal ion additives, 90 h of fermentation time. In this optimal condition, ethanol production by SSF of uncooked RWC slurry was improved to 16.8% (v/v) from 15.1% (v/v) of pre-optimization.
19884783	The search for diverse plant growth-promoting (PGP) diazotrophic bacteria is gaining momentum as efforts are made to exploit them as biofertilizers for various economically important crops. In the present study, 17 diazotrophic strains belonging to eight different genera isolated from rice paddy fields were screened for multiple PGP traits and evaluated for their inoculation effects on canola and rice plants. All of the strains tested positive for 1- aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) deaminase activity and production of indole 3-acetic acid (IAA) and ammonia (NH3). Additionally, four of the strains were able to solubilize phosphorus (P), five tested positive for zinc (Zn) solubilization and sulfur (S) oxidation, and eight strains produced siderophores. Based on the presence of multiple PGP traits, 10 strains were selected for inoculation studies. Treatment with Herbaspirillum sp. RFNB26 resulted in maximum root length (54.3%), seedling vigor, and dry biomass in canola, whereas Paenibacillus sp. RFNB4 exhibited the lowest activity under gnotobiotic conditions. However, under pot culture conditions, Paenibacillus sp. RFNB4 significantly increased plant height and dry biomass production by 42.3% and 29.5%, respectively. Canola plants and rhizosphere soils inoculated with Bacillus sp. RFNB6 exhibited significantly higher nitrogenase activity. In greenhouse experiments, Serratia sp. RFNB18 increased rice plant height by 35.1%, Xanthomonas sp. RFNB24 enhanced biomass production by 84.6%, and rice rhizosphere soils inoculated with Herbaspirillum sp. RFNB26 exhibited the highest nitrogenase activity. Our findings indicate that most of the selected strains possess multiple PGP properties that significantly improve the growth parameters of the two plants when tested under controlled conditions.
19884784	To construct a new recombinant strain of Bacillus velezensis that has antifungal and insecticidal activity via the expression of the insecticidal Bacillus thuringiensis crystal protein, a B. thuringiensis expression vector (pHT1K-1Ac) was generated that contained the B. thuringiensis cry1Ac gene under the control of its endogenous promoter in a minimal E. coli-B. thuringiensis shuttle vector (pHT1K). This vector was introduced into a B. velezensis isolate that showed high antifungal activities against several plant diseases, including rice blast (Magnaporthe grisea), rice sheath blight (Rhizotonia solani), tomato gray mold (Botrytis cinerea), tomato late blight (Phytophthora infestans), and wheat leaf rust (Puccinia recondita), by electroporation. The recombinant B. velezensis strain was confirmed by PCR using cry1Ac-specific primers. Additionally, the recombinant strain produced a protein approximately 130 kDa in size and parasporal inclusion bodies similar to B. thuringiensis. The in vivo antifungal activity assay demonstrated that the activity of the recombinant B. velezensis strain was maintained at the same level as that of wild-type B. velezensis. Furthermore, it exhibited high insecticidal activity against a lepidopteran pest, Plutella xylostella, although its activity was lower than that of a recombinant B. thuringiensis strain, whereas wild-type B. velezensis strain did not show any insecticidal activity. These results suggest that this recombinant B. velezensis strain can be used to control harmful insect pests and fungal diseases simultaneously in one crop.
19884787	Endophytic fungi are known for the production of valuable metabolites, but information on the gibberellin production capacity of this group is limited. We isolated 9 endophytic fungi from the roots of salt-stressed soybean plants and screened them on waito-c rice, in order to identify plant growth promoting fungal strains. The fungal isolate TK- 2-4 gave maximum plant length (20.35 cm) promotion in comparison with wild-type Gibberella fujikuroi (19.5 cm). In a separate experiment, bioassay of TK-2-4 promoted plant length and biomass of soybean cultivar Taegwangkong. The TK-2-4 culture filtrate was analyzed for the presence of gibberellins, and it was found that all physiologically active gibberellins, especially GA(4) and GA(7), were present in higher amounts (GA(1), 0.11 ng/ml; GA(3), 2.91 ng/ml; GA(4), 3.21 ng/ml; and GA(7), 1.4 ng/ml) in conjunction with physiologically inactive GA(9) (0.05 ng/ml), GA(12) (0.23 ng/ ml), GA(15) (0.42 ng/ml), GA(19) (0.53 ng/ml), and GA(20) (0.06 ng/ml). The fungal isolate TK-2-4 was later identified as a new strain of Phoma herbarum, through the phylogenetic analysis of 28S rDNA sequence.
19885179	The glycemic index (GI) is a measure of the ability of a food to raise glucose levels after it is eaten. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) has been shown to give identical values of GI when compared to traditional methods. However, there has been no standardized protocol for measuring GI that takes into account interindividual variability and chronophysiological glycemic response to food. Our aim was (1) to create and describe software based on a Microsoft Excel 2000 spreadsheet to facilitate rapid, automated, accurate, and standardized processing of data obtained using recent CGM methodology to measure GI and its variability and (2) to assess the benefits of this new approach. Twenty healthy subjects consumed 50 grams of glucose or four alternative foodstuffs (chocolate, apple baby food, rice squares, or yogurt) at breakfast and dinner during 1 week, resulting in 300 CGMS glucose profiles; 92% of meal tests were satisfactory for evaluation. Application and functions of the software DegifXL are described. Using the new spreadsheet software DegifXL, time required for data processing for the 15 data sets for each subject was reduced from 2000 to 160 minutes relative to previously used manual methods. We characterized the GI for four foodstuffs with three replicate measurements in each of 20 subjects and evaluated between person, between time period, and between replicate GI variabilities. DegifXL, combined with CGM, was an efficient and effective tool for routine measurement of group- and subject-related GI.
19885651	Phytoene synthase (PSY), which is encoded by the phytoene synthase 1 (PSY1) gene, is the first rate-limiting enzyme in the plant carotenoid biosynthetic pathway. In order to examine the genetic diversity and evolution pattern of PSY1 within the Andropogoneae, sequences of 76 accessions from 5 species (maize, teosinte, tripsacum, coix, and sorghum) of the Andropogoneae were tested, along with 4 accessions of rice (Oryza sativa L.) included as outliers. Both the number and the order of exons and introns were relatively conserved across the species tested. Three domains were identified in the coding sequence, including signal peptide (SP), PSY, and highly conserved squalene synthase (SQS) domain. Although no positive selection signal was detected at an overall coding level among all species tested, the SP domain and the region upstream of the SQS-PSY domain appear to have undergone rapid evolution, as evidenced by a high d (N)/d (S) ratio (>1.0). At the nucleotide level, positive selection and balancing selection were detected only among the yellow maize germplasm and the white maize germplasm, respectively. The phylogenetic tree based on full-length sequences of PSY1-like regions supported the monophyletic theory of the Andropogoneae and the closest relationship between Zea and Tripsacum among the Andropogoneae. Coix, which was theorized to have a closer relationship with maize due to similarities in morphology and chromosome number, has been shown in this study to have diverged relatively early from the other Andropogoneae, including maize.
19886425	In Valle del Cauca, south-west Colombia, surface and ground waters are used for sugar cane irrigation at a rate of 100 m3 of water per tonne of sugar produced. In addition large quantities of artificial fertilizers and pesticides are used to grow the crop. Preliminary experiments were undertaken to determine the feasibility of using effluents from the Cañaveralejo primary wastewater treatment plant in Cali. Sugar cane variety CC 8592 was planted in 18 box plots, each 0.5 m2. Six were irrigated with conventional primary effluent, six with chemically enhanced primary effluent and six with groundwater. For each set of six box plots, three contained local soil and three a 50:50 mixture of sand and rice husks. The three irrigation waters were monitored for 12 months, and immediately after harvest the sugar content of the sugar cane juice determined. All physico-chemical quality parameters for the three irrigation waters were lower than the FAO guideline values for irrigation water quality; on the basis of their sodium absorption ratios and electrical conductivity values, both wastewater effluents were in the USDA low-to-medium risk category C2S1. There was no difference in the sugar content of the cane juice irrigated with the three waters. However, the microbiological quality (E. coli and helminth numbers) of the two effluents did not meet the WHO guidelines and therefore additional human exposure control measures are required in order to minimize any resulting adverse health risks to those working in the wastewater-irrigated fields.
19886448	The rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus Kuschel, is the most widely distributed and destructive early season insect pest of rice, Oryza sativa L., in the United States. Economic losses result primarily from feeding by the larval stage of this insect on the roots of flooded rice plants. Prior studies suggest that infestations of rice water weevil larvae are more severe at low plant densities. Moreover, because feeding by the rice water weevil reduces rice plant tillering, a process particularly important to yield at low seeding rates, infestations by weevil larvae may have a greater impact on rice yields when rice is seeded at low rates. In total, six experiments were conducted over a 3-yr period in Louisiana and Missouri to investigate the impacts of rice seeding rate on levels of infestations by, and yield losses from, the rice water weevil. An inverse relationship between seeding rate and densities of rice water weevil larvae and pupae on a per area basis was found in two of the six experiments. Furthermore, in two of the three experiments conducted with 'Bengal' (a susceptible cultivar) in Louisiana, percentages of yield loss were significantly higher at lower seeding rates than at higher seeding rates. Overall, these results indicate that rice sown at low rates is more vulnerable to infestation by rice water weevils and more susceptible to yield losses from weevil injury. The significance of these findings in light of recent trends toward the use of lower seeding rates in drill-seeded rice is discussed.
19886520	Gluten free food for people with celiac disease based on quinoa, rice and corn flours and starches, were formulated. An informatic tool (ALIM V 1.0) developed by the authors, was used for the formulation of these foods. The obtained products were pancakes, scons, precooked pizza and bread which were analyzed in their chemical composition (protein, fat, fiber, moisture, ash and carbohydrates). Water activity (aw), acceptability and texture parameters (hardness, gumminess, chewiness, adhesiveness and cohesiveness) were also determined. Commercial products (C) were taken as reference and were performed the same analysis to formulated products (F). Significant differences were found in protein, fat moisture, ash and fiber content and in most of the texture parameters studied in both food groups (p<0.05). In pancakes and scones (F) was observed an increase of protein of 88 and 198% respectively, while prepizza and bread (F) showed lower contents (8 and 22%) respect to their commercial pairs, however all products (F) have Chemical Scores higher to 100. The aw of products (F) and (C), gave values similar to the data cited on bibliography for analogous products. The formulations more acceptable (values over 80%) were scones and pancakes. Overall, the formulated products provide good quality proteins, have good textural characteristics and adequate percentages of acceptability to be used in the feeding of celiac patients.
19886684	The fate of fipronil in flooded, reductive rice soils was modeled using a conceptual model. Rate constants for the various sorption and degradation processes were calculated from experimental studies involving intact soil cores, and the reductive degradation constant was used to calculate half-lives for fipronil on each soil. The data predicted that fipronil was subject to rapid, reductive degradation or immediate sorption to the soil and any sorbed fipronil desorbed was reductively degraded. The reductive metabolite, fipronil sulfide, accumulated over the 184 day duration of the experiment and sorbed rapidly to the soil, where it accumulated and did not appear to degrade. Neither fipronil nor fipronil sulfide was found beyond the top 1 cm of soil in Yanco soil, while a small amount of each chemical was found up to 4 cm deep in the Coleambally soil profile.
19887471	Positive selection in the -crystallin domain (ACD) of the chloroplast small heat shock protein (CPsHSP) gene was found in a previous study and was suggested to be related to the ecological adaptation of Rhododendron species in the subgenus Hymenanthes. Consequently, it was of interest to examine whether gene duplication and subsequent divergence have occurred in other sHSP genes, for example class I cytosolic sHSP genes (CT1sHSPs) in Rhododendron in Taiwan, where many endemic species have evolved as a result of habitat differentiation. A phylogeny of CT1sHSP amino acid sequences was built from Rhododendron, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera and other species for elucidation of the phylogenetic relationships among CT1sHSPs. Phylogenies of Rhododendron CT1sHSP nucleotide and amino acid sequences were generated for positive selection and functional divergence analysis, respectively. Positively selected sites and amino acid differences between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs were mapped onto the wheat sHSP16.9 protein structure. Average genetic distance (Dxy) and dN/dS ratios between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSP genes were analysed using sliding window analysis. Gene conversion was also assessed between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs. Two types of Rhododendron CT1sHSP were identified. A high level of genetic similarity and diversity within and flanking the ACD, respectively, between types of Rhododendron CT1sHSP were found. Main differences between the two types of Rhododendron CT1sHSPs were: (1) increased hydrophobicity by two positively selected amino acid sites and a seven-amino-acid insertion in the N-terminal arm; and (2) increased structural flexibility and solubility by a seven-amino-acid insertion in the N-terminal arm and one positively selected amino acid site in the C-terminal extension. Functional conservation of the ACD of Rhododendron CT1sHSP genes was inferred b
19888275	To describe the contribution of highly processed foods to total diet, nutrient intakes and patterns among 27 redefined centres in the 10 countries participating in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC). Single 24-hour dietary recalls were collected from 36,034 individuals (aged 35-74 years) using a standardized computerized interview programme (EPIC-SOFT). Centre-specific mean food intakes (g/day) were computed according to their degree of food processing (that is, highly, moderately and non-processed foods) using a specifically designed classification system. The contribution (%) of highly processed foods to the centre mean intakes of diet and 26 nutrients (including energy) was estimated using a standardized nutrient database (ENDB). The effect of different possible confounders was also investigated. Highly processed foods were an important source of the nutrients considered, contributing between 61% (Spain) and 78-79% (the Netherlands and Germany) of mean energy intakes. Only two nutrients, beta-carotene (34-46%) and vitamin C (28-36%), had a contribution from highly processed foods below 50% in Nordic countries, in Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, whereas for the other nutrients, the contribution varied from 50 to 91% (excluding alcohol). In southern countries (Greece, Spain, Italy and France), the overall contribution of highly processed foods to nutrient intakes was lower and consisted largely of staple or basic foods (for example, bread, pasta/rice, milk, vegetable oils), whereas highly processed foods such as crisp bread, breakfast cereals, margarine and other commercial foods contributed more in Nordic and central European centres. Highly industrially processed foods dominate diets and nutrient patterns in Nordic and central European countries. The greater variations observed within southern countries may reflect both a larger contribution of non/moderately processed staple foods along with a move from traditional to more industrialized dietary patterns.
19888555	Postmeiotic development is a unique characteristic of flowering plants. During the development, microspores undergo two cycles of mitosis (PMI and PMII) and a subsequent maturation process to finally produce the mature pollen, but the mechanism underlying the development is still largely unknown. Here, we report on the roles of a novel gene, RA68, in postmeiotic pollen development in Oryza sativa. RA68 was expressed preferentially in shoots and flowers. In flowers, the transcript persisted from the floral organ differentiation to the mature pollen stages and showed preferential accumulation in male meiocytes, developing pollen and tapetal cells. RA68-deficient RNAi lines showed reduced seed setting and pollen viability but not an aberrant phenotype in vegetative organs. Knockdown of RA68 led to arrested PMI, smaller pollen grains with little or no starch, and aborted pollen but not severely distruped male meiosis. Additionally, no abnormality of anther wall development was observed in RA68-RNAi lines. RA68 may be required for postmeiotic pollen development by affecting PMI and starch accumulation.
19888561	The earliest industrial biotechnology originated in ancient China and developed into a vibrant industry in traditional Chinese liquor, rice wine, soy sauce, and vinegar. It is now a significant component of the Chinese economy valued annually at about 150 billion RMB. Although the production methods had existed and remained basically unchanged for centuries, modern developments in biotechnology and related fields in the last decades have greatly impacted on these industries and led to numerous technological innovations. In this chapter, the main biochemical processes and related technological innovations in traditional Chinese biotechnology are illustrated with recent advances in functional microbiology, microbial ecology, solid-state fermentation, enzymology, chemistry of impact flavor compounds, and improvements made to relevant traditional industrial facilities. Recent biotechnological advances in making Chinese liquor, rice wine, soy sauce, and vinegar are reviewed.
19888828	Plant aspartic proteases (AP) play key roles in the regulation of biological processes, such as the recognition of pathogens and pests and the induction of effective defense responses. A large number of AP (>400) have been identified in silico in the rice genome. None have previously been isolated and functionally characterized for their involvement in disease resistance. We describe here the isolation and characterization of a gene (OsCDR1) from rice which encodes a predicted aspartate protease. Expression of OsCDR1 was activated upon treatments with benzothiadiazole and salicylic acid, which are signal molecules in plant disease resistance responses. Ectopic expression of OsCDR1 in Arabidopsis and rice conferred enhanced resistance against bacterial and fungal pathogens. The enhanced disease resistance observed in transgenic plants was correlated with induction of pathogenesis-related gene expression and was shown by mutational analysis to be dependent on AP activity of the transgene-encoded product. OsCDR1 accumulates in intercellular fluids (IF) in transgenic plants. Infiltration of IF from transgenic Arabidopsis plants into leaves of wild-type (WT) Arabidopsis induced the systemic defense response. These results demonstrate the conservation of CDR1 function between rice and Arabidopsis during the disease resistance response.
19889446	Reductive dechlorination is a crucial pathway for HCB degradation, the applications of organic materials and nitrogen can alter microbial activity and redox potential of soils, thus probably influence HCB dechlorination. To evaluate hexachlorobenzene (HCB) dechlorination as affected by organic fertilizer (OF) and urea applications in planted paddy soils, a pot experiment was conducted in two types of soils, Hydragric Acrisols (Ac) and Gleyi-Stagnic Anthrosols (An). After 18 weeks of experiment, HCB residues decreased by 28.2-37.5% of the initial amounts in Ac, and 42.1-70.9% in An. The amounts of HCB metabolites showed that dechlorination rates in An were higher than in Ac, which was mainly attributed to the higher pH and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) content of An. Both in Ac and An, the additions of 1% and 2% OF had negative effect on HCB dechlorination, which was probably because excessive nitrogen in OF decreased degraders' activity and the degradation of organic carbon in OF accepted electrons. The application of 0.03% urea could enhance HCB dechlorination rates slightly, while 0.06% urea accelerated HCB dechlorination significantly both in Ac and An. It could be assumed that urea served as an electron donor and stimulated degraders to dechlorinate HCB. In addition, the methanogenic bacteria were involved in dechlorination process, and reductive dechlorination in planted paddy soil might be impeded for the aerenchyma and O(2) supply into the rhizosphere. Results indicated that soil types, rice root system, methanogenic bacteria, OF and urea applications all had great effects on dechlorination process.
19889805	How to improve iron status among infants and young children is of continued concern in low- to middle-income countries, including Brazil. In a double blind, 5-mo, home-based, randomized trial in Brazil, we gave one group of mildly anemic 6- to 24-mo-old children (n = 175) rice fortified with micronized ferric pyrophosphate using the Ultra Rice technology and a placebo solution (URG) and another group identical nonfortified rice and iron drops. We instructed parents on the correct dosage of iron drops and to feed their children rice as they normally would. We measured serum ferritin (SF) and hemoglobin (Hb) concentrations at baseline and at 5 mo. At baseline, the prevalences of iron deficiency and anemia in the total sample were 73.1 and 100%, respectively. At 5 mo, SF and Hb increased in both groups, although the change in the URG was larger (P < 0.01). Adult participants were unable to distinguish cooked fortified rice from unfortified rice in terms of smell, color, or taste. As rice is normally consumed at home, MPF-fortified rice increased iron stores and reduced anemia in a group of mildly anemic children 6-24 mo old. In populations where young children are routinely fed approximately 100 g of cooked rice daily, fortifying it with iron may improve iron status at least as well as providing free iron drops.
19890549	Rice has been demonstrated to be one of the major contributors to inorganic arsenic (i-As) intake in humans. However, little is known about rice products as additional source of i-As exposure. In this study, misos, syrups and amazake (a fermented sweet rice drink) produced from rice, barley and millet were analysed for total arsenic (t-As) and a subset of samples were also analyzed for As speciation. Rice based products displayed a higher i-As content than those derived from barley and millet. Most of the t-As in the rice products studied was inorganic (63-83%), the remainder being dimethylarsinic acid. Those who regularly consume rice drinks and condiments, such as the Japanese population and those who follow health conscious diets based on the Japanese cuisine, could reach up to 23% of the World Health Organization's Provisional Tolerable Daily Intake of i-As, by only consuming these kinds of products. This study provides a wide appreciation of how i-As derived from rice based products enters the human diet and how this may be of concern to populations who are already exposed to high levels of i-As through consumption of foods such as rice and seaweed.
19891455	An automated hydride generation (AHG) interface to inductive coupled plasma mass spectroscopy (ICPMS) was developed for measuring arsenic in environmental samples. This technique provides statistically indistinguishable response slopes (within about 3%) for hydride generation-ICPMS (HG-ICPMS) analysis of all major As species, inorganic As(III), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA), monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), and inorganic As(V); this has not previously been achieved. Previously, sample pretreatment to convert all forms of As into As(V) has been a prerequisite for measuring total arsenic in complex matrices. Under our operating conditions, arsenobetaine (AsB), until now regarded to be inert, also generates a hydride (albeit the response is only approximately 7% of others). The limit of detection (LOD) based on three times the standard deviation of the blank with this technique for AsB, DMA, As(III), MMA, and As(V) is 90, 66, 63, 63, and 63 pg As, respectively. This AHG-ICPMS technique was compared with a flow injection-UV photolysis-HG-ICPMS (FI-UV-ICPMS) and liquid chromatography-UV-HG-ICPMS analysis of arsenic content in National Institute of Standards & Technology (NIST) standard rice flour (standard reference material: SRM 1568a) and rice samples collected from West Bengal, India. Both oxidative acid digestion and methanol:water (1:1) extraction were used. The analytical results for total As in the SRM 1568a digest were 99.2 +/- 0.6 and 100.2 +/- 0.8% of the certified value (290 +/- 3 microg As/kg) by the AHG-ICPMS and the FI-UV-HG-ICPMS techniques, respectively. For rice extracts and the digests, the two techniques provided results that were correlated with linear r2 values of 0.9988 and 0.9987 with intercepts statistically indistinguishable from zero. Chromatographic analysis indicated that As in these rice samples were 75-90% inorganic.
19891703	In plants RNA silencing is a host defense mechanism against viral infection, in which double-strand RNA is processed into 21-24-nt short interfering RNA (siRNA). Silencing spreads from cell to cell and systemically through a sequence-specific signal to limit the propagation of the virus. To counteract this defense mechanism, viruses encode suppressors of silencing. The P1 protein encoded by the rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) displays suppression activity with variable efficiency, according to the isolates that they originated from. Here, we show that P1 proteins from two RYMV isolates displaying contrasting suppression strength reduced local silencing induced by single-strand and double-strand RNA in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves. This suppression was associated with a slight and a severe reduction in 21- and 24-nt siRNA accumulation, respectively. Unexpectedly, cell-to-cell movement and systemic propagation of silencing were enhanced in P1-expressing Nicotiana plants. When transgenically expressed in rice, P1 proteins induced specific deregulation of DCL4-dependent endogenous siRNA pathways, whereas the other endogenous pathways were not affected. As DCL4-dependent pathways play a key role in rice development, the expression of P1 viral proteins was associated with the same severe developmental defects in spikelets as in dcl4 mutants. Overall, our results demonstrate that a single viral protein displays multiple effects on both endogenous and exogenous silencing, not only in a suppressive but also in an enhancive manner. This suggests that P1 proteins play a key role in maintaining a subtle equilibrium between defense and counter-defense mechanisms, to insure efficient virus multiplication and the preservation of host integrity.
19891707	A pre-infestation of the white-backed planthopper (WBPH), Sogatella furcifera Horváth, conferred resistance to bacterial blight caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) under both laboratory and field conditions. The infestation of another planthopper species, the brown planthopper (BPH) Nilaparvata lugens Stål, did not significantly reduce the incidence of bacterial blight symptoms. A large-scale screening using a rice DNA microarray and quantitative RT-PCR revealed that WBPH infestation caused the upregulation of more defence-related genes than did BPH infestation. Hydroperoxide lyase 2 (OsHPL2), an enzyme for producing C(6) volatiles, was upregulated by WBPH infestation, but not by BPH infestation. One C(6) volatile, (E)-2-hexenal, accumulated in rice after WBPH infestation, but not after BPH infestation. A direct application of (E)-2-hexenal to a liquid culture of Xoo inhibited the growth of the bacterium. Furthermore, a vapour treatment of rice plants with (E)-2-hexenal induced resistance to bacterial blight. OsHPL2-overexpressing transgenic rice plants exhibited increased resistance to bacterial blight. Based on these data, we conclude that OsHPL2 and its derived (E)-2-hexenal play some role in WBPH-induced resistance in rice.
19892133	This historical review addresses major neurological disorders associated with deficiencies of water-soluble B vitamins: beriberi, Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome, pellagra, neural tube defects, and subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord. Beriberi: Beriberi was known for millennia in Asia, but was not described by a European until the 17th century when Brontius in the Dutch East Indies reported the progressive sensorimotor polyneuropathy. The prevalence of beriberi increased greatly in Asia with a change in the milling process for rice in the late 19th century. In the 1880s, Takaki demonstrated the benefits of dietary modification in sailors, and later instituted dietary reforms in the Japanese Navy, which largely eradicated beriberi from the Japanese Navy by 1887. In 1889 Eijkman in Java serendipitously identified dietary factors as a major contributor to "chicken polyneuritis," which he took to be an animal model for beriberi; the polyneuritis could be cured or prevented by feeding the chickens either unpolished rice or rice polishings. By 1901, Grijns, while continuing studies of beriberi in Java, suggested a dietary deficiency explanation for beriberi after systematically eliminating deficiencies of known dietary components and excluding a toxic effect. Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome: In the late 1870s, Wernicke identified a clinicopathological condition with ophthalmoparesis, nystagmus, ataxia, and encephalopathy, associated with punctate hemorrhages symmetrically arranged in the grey matter around the third and fourth ventricles and the aqueduct of Sylvius. In the late 1880s, Korsakoff described a spectrum of cognitive disorders, including a confabulatory amnestic state following an agitated delirium, occurring in conjunction with peripheral polyneuropathy. Beginning around 1900, investigators recognized the close relationship between Korsakoff's psychosis, delirium tremens, and Wernicke's encephalopathy, but not until several decades later were Wernicke's encephalopathy, Korsakoff's psychosis, and beriberi all linked to the deficiency of a specific dietary factor, i.e. thiamin. Thiamin: Thiamin was crystallized from rice polishings by Jansen and Donath in 1926, and synthesized by Williams and Cline in 1936. In the late 1930s and early 1940s, characteristic pathological changes of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome were produced in animal models, the biochemical roles of thiamin in intermediary carbohydrate metabolism were elaborated by Peters and others, and the therapeutic benefits of thiamin for Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome and beriberi were demonstrated. By the 1950s synthetic forms of the vitamin were produced cheaply, allowing both therapeutic administration and prevention with food enrichment. Pellagra and niacin: Pellagra was unknown prior to the introduction of maize into Europe from the New World. In the 18th century, Casàl and Frapolli described the clinical features of pellagra in Europe, and linked it with poverty and subsistence on nutritionally marginal corn-based diets. In the United States, pellagra became epidemic among poor Southerners in the early 20th century, in part because of economically-driven reliance on monotonous, nutritionally inadequate diets, combined with new manufacturing methods that removed vitamins from processed grain. From 1914-1929, Goldberger completed well-designed epidemiologic investigations, tested theories with human experiments, and utilized an animal model ("black tongue" in dogs) - all strongly supporting a dietary deficiency explanation for pellagra over prevailing toxic and infectious theories. Initial prevention and treatment approaches proved inadequate because of complex social issues linked to poverty, even after Goldberger and colleagues established that dried brewer's yeast could cure or prevent pellagra less expensively than dietary modification. During the depression, the collapse of cotton as an economically viable crop facilitated crop diversification, which contributed to an abrupt decline in pellagra mortality in the early 1930s. In 1937 Elvehjem isolated the P-P (pellagra preventive) factor, identified it as nicotinic acid (niacin), and demonstrated that nicotinic acid and nicotinic acid amide cure black tongue in dogs. Although clinical trials soon confirmed dramatic therapeutic effects in individual people, therapeutic administration of niacin had relatively little impact on population-level morbidity and mortality. Vitamin fortification of foodstuffs during World War II ultimately eradicated endemic pellagra in the United States. In the 1940s and 1950s, with expanded biochemical knowledge, pellagra was reformulated as a deficiency disease due to inadequate niacin and its amino acid precursor tryptophan. Neural tube defects and folate: Folate deficiency was initially recognized clinically as a macrocytic anemia in the 1920s, and only clearly separated from pernicious anemia by the mid-20th century. When folic acid was isolated and synthesized in the 1940s, it was shown to correct the macrocytic anemia associated with pernicious anemia, while the neurological manifestations progressed. In the 1950s and 1960s, the biochemical role of folates in transferring single carbon units was elucidated. Beginning in the 1960s, folate deficiency was increasingly recognized as the major cause of preventable neural tube defects. In the early 1990s well-designed randomized trials established that folate supplementation could prevent neural tube defects. Trial data, collectively indicating that periconceptual folate administration reduces both the occurrence and recurrence risks of neural tube defects by at least 70%, helped establish governmental recommendations concerning folic acid intake and health policy concerning vitamin fortification of foodstuffs. When dietary modification and supplementation strategies proved inadequate, folic acid food fortification was legally mandated in the US in the late 1990s, which significantly improved population folate status and produced an abrupt decline (20%-27%) in the prevalence of neural tube defects at birth. Recent studies have established genetic predispositions for neural tube defects, including both infant and maternal gene polymorphisms for enzymes involved in folate-dependent homocysteine metabolism, which help explain how the genotype of the mother, the genotype of the unborn child, and environmental factors (e.g. folate intake) can all impact on the risk of neural tube defects. Subacute combined degeneration and B(12) deficiency: Pernicious anemia was recognized clinically in the mid-19th century by Addison, but the most important neurological manifestation - subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord - was not recognized clinically and linked with pernicious anemia until the end of the 19th century, particularly by Lichtheim, Putnam, and Dana. At the beginning of the 20th century, pernicious anemia and the associated subacute combined degeneration of the spinal cord were considered, by many investigators, to result from infectious or toxic causes. During the first quarter of the 20th century, various therapies were employed, but, with the possible exception of transfusion, were largely ineffective. In the 1920s, Minot and Murphy showed that large quantities of ingested liver could be used to effectively treat pernicious anemia, and specifically could improve or prevent progression of neurological manifestations, and could extend life expectancy beyond 2 years. Beginning in the late 1920s, Castle demonstrated that a substance elaborated by the gastric mucosa ("intrinsic factor") was essential for the absorption of a dietary factor ("extrinsic factor," later shown to be vitamin B(12)) needed to prevent pernicious anemia. Over two decades, from the late 1920s until the late 1940s, increasingly potent liver extracts were manufactured that could be given either intramuscularly or intravenously. In 1947, vitamin B(12) was isolated by Folkers and colleagues, and nearly simultaneously by Smith. Shortly thereafter the therapeutic efficacy of vitamin B(12) on subacute combined degeneration was demonstrated by West and Reisner and others. By 1955, Hodgkin determined the molecular structure of cyanocobalamin using computer-assisted x-ray crystallography, allowing complete chemical synthesis of vitamin B(12) in 1960 by an international consortium. Beginning in the late 1950s, the absorption and biochemistry of vitamin B(12) were elaborated, and several lines of evidence converged to support an autoimmune basis for pernicious anemia.
19892385	The levels of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofuran (PCDD/PCDFs), and dioxin-like polychlorinated biphenyls (DL-PCBs) were determined in sediment samples from Can Gio, South Vietnam, and Osaka, Japan. Can Gio is known for the defoliation of its mangrove forests by aerial spraying with Agent Orange during the Vietnam War, whereas Osaka is renowned for a PCDD/PCDF pollution accident at a municipal solid-waste incinerator. For comparison, we also analyzed PCDD/PCDFs and DL-PCBs in sediment samples from Hue and Hanoi, Vietnam. The toxic equivalent quantity (TEQ) values in Can Gio were as high as those in Hue, Hanoi, and suburban areas of Osaka, but much lower than those in urban areas of Osaka. The proportion of the World Health Organization (WHO)-TEQ value contributed by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) in Can Gio was approximately 30%, higher than the values in the other sample areas. These data suggest that residual sedimentary TCDD that originated from aerial spraying of Agent Orange occur in only low concentrations in Can Gio. The main contributors to WHO-TEQ values in Can Gio are natural sources, as in Hue. In contrast, commercial PCBs are the dominant contributors to WHO-TEQ values in Hanoi. In Osaka, agrochemicals used in rice cultivation, the incineration of solid waste, and commercial PCBs equally contributed to WHO-TEQ values at suburban locations. The dumping of incinerator-related materials and/or the inadequate management of commercial PCBs have resulted in significantly elevated WHO-TEQ values of 240-370 ng kg(-1)dw at urban locations in Osaka.
1989420	The influence of preprandial blood glucose (PPBG) concentration on glycemic responses was studied in seven subjects with insulin-dependent diabetes who, by means of the artificial pancreas, had achieved PPBG concentrations of 6, 9, and 17 mmol/L. A test meal of 50 g parboiled rice was given at the three different occasions and a constant insulin infusion was provided during the observation periods. The mean postprandial-blood-glucose-response area (above basal) differed significantly at the three blood glucose concentrations of 6, 9, and 17 mmol/L, reaching 1371, 621, and 179 mmol/L x 240 min, respectively (P less than 0.01). A negative correlation between the PPBG concentrations and the glycemic responses to the test meal was found (r = 0.94; P less than 0.001). The fasting insulin concentration at a PPBG concentration of 17 mmol/L was lower than at a PPBG concentration of 6 and 9 mmol/L. In conclusion, the glycemic responses to a carbohydrate meal are inversely correlated to the PPBG concentration in insulin-dependent diabetic subjects.
19894592	Foreign-body aspiration (FBA) obstructing the airways may lead to choking and cardiopulmonary arrest without immediate emergency care. We retrospectively reviewed medical records of 17 otorhinolaryngology subjects-8 men and 9 women aged 0 to 84 years-88% of whom were < 3 years old, requiring tracheobronchial FBA between January 1995 and October 2006 and of 62 emergency subjects-43 men and 19 women aged 0 to 91 years--10% of whom were < 3 yeares old 68% of whom > or = 50 years old, admitted between January 2000 and October 2006. Emergency Department personnel saw a mean of 8.9 patients per year versus the mean of 1.4 patients per year seen by Otorhinolaryngology Department personnel. Foreign bodies extracted most frequently from the 17 otorhinolaryngology patients were 9 seen for peanut injestion followed by 1 each seen for bean, screw, and false teeth injestion among other objects. Sixteen of the 17 were discharged without complications. Foreign bodies extracted from the 62 emergency patients most frequently involved food, especially rice cakes. Over half seen had already gone into cardiopulmonary arrest upon arrival and required cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Of the 62, 32 patients died, 13 were sent to another hospital after in-patient care, 9 were sent home without admission, and 7 were discharged without complications.
19895405	Understanding of leaf stomatal responses to the atmospheric CO(2) concentration, [CO(2)], is essential for accurate prediction of plant water use under future climates. However, limited information is available for the diurnal and seasonal changes in stomatal conductance (g(s)) under elevated [CO(2)]. We examined the factors responsible for variations in g(s) under elevated [CO(2)] with three rice cultivars grown in an open-field environment under flooded conditions during two growing seasons (a total of 2140 individual measurements). Conductance of all cultivars was generally higher in the morning and around noon than in the afternoon, and elevated [CO(2)] decreased g(s) by up to 64% over the 2 years (significantly on 26 out of 38 measurement days), with a mean g(s) decrease of 23%. We plotted the g(s) variations against three parameters from the Ball-Berry model and two revised versions of the model, and all parameters explained the g(s) variations well at each [CO(2)] in the morning and around noon (R(2) > 0.68), but could not explain these variations in the afternoon (R(2) < 0.33). The present results provide an important basis for modelling future water use in rice production.
19895406	Increasing soil salinity is a serious threat to agricultural productions worldwide in the 21st century. Several essential Na(+) transporters such as AtNHX1 and AtSOS1 function in Na(+) tolerance under salinity stress in plants. Recently, evidence for a new primary salt tolerance mechanism has been reported, which is mediated by a class of HKT transporters both in dicots such as Arabidopsis and monocot crops such as rice and wheat. Here we present a review on vital physiological functions of HKT transporters including AtHKT1;1 and OsHKT1;5 in preventing shoot Na(+) over-accumulation by mediating Na(+) exclusion from xylem vessels in the presence of a large amount of Na(+) thereby protecting leaves from salinity stress. Findings of the HKT2 transporter sub-family are also updated in this review. Subjects regarding function and regulation of HKT transporters, which need to be elucidated in future research, are discussed.
19895414	*The exocyst is a complex of eight proteins (Sec3p, Sec5p, Sec6p, Sec8p, Sec10p, Sec15p, Exo70p and Exo84p) involved in tethering vesicles to the plasma membrane during regulated or polarized secretion. Here, the plant exocyst complex was explored in phylogenetic, expression, and subcellular localization studies. *Evolutionary relationships of predicted exocyst subunits were examined in the complete genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Populus trichocarpa and Physcomitrella patens. Furthermore, detailed expression profiling of the A. thaliana microarray databases was performed and subcellular localization patterns were studied. *Several plant exocyst subunit genes appear to have undergone gene expansion in a common ancestor and subsequent duplication events in independent plant lineages. Expression profiling revealed that the A. thaliana Exo70 gene family exhibits dynamic expression patterns, while the remaining exocyst subunit genes displayed more static profiles. Subcellular localization patterns for A. thaliana exocyst subunits ranged from cytosolic to endosomal compartments (with enrichment in the early endosomes and the trans-Golgi network). Interestingly, two endosomal-localized AtExo70 proteins also recruited other exocyst subunits to these compartments. *Overall subcellular localization patterns were observed that were also found in yeast and animal cells, and this, coupled with the evolutionary relationships, suggests that the exocyst may perform similar conserved functions in plants.
19895416	*Cereals are an important source of selenium (Se) to humans and many people have inadequate intakes of this essential trace element. Conversely, arsenic (As) is toxic and may accumulate in rice grain at levels that pose a health risk. Knowledge of the localization of selenium and arsenic within the cereal grain will aid understanding of their deposition patterns and the impact of processes such as milling. *High-resolution secondary ion mass spectrometry (NanoSIMS) was used to determine the localization of Se in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and As in rice (Oryza sativa). Combined synchrotron X-ray fluorescence (S-XRF) and NanoSIMS analysis utilized the strengths of both techniques. *Selenium was concentrated in the protein surrounding the starch granules in the starchy endosperm cells and more homogeneously distributed in the aleurone cells but with Se-rich hotspots. Arsenic was concentrated in the subaleurone endosperm cells in association with the protein matrix rather than in the aleurone cells. NanoSIMS indicated that the high intensity of As identified in the S-XRF image was localized in micron-sized hotspots near the ovular vascular trace and nucellar projection. *This is the first study showing subcellular localization in grain samples containing parts per million concentrations of Se and As. There is good quantitative agreement between NanoSIMS and S-XRF.
19895467	The objective of the present study was to develop a method for obtaining the gelatinization temperature of starches by using electrical conductivity. Native starches from corn, rice, potato, and wheat were prepared with different proportions of water and heated from room temperature to 90 degrees C, in a device especially designed for monitoring the electrical conductivity as a function of temperature. The results showed a linear trend of the electrical conductivity with the temperature until it reaches the onset gelatinization temperature. After that point, the electrical conductivity presented an increment or decrement depending on the water content in the sample and it was related to starch swelling and gelatinization phenomena. At the end gelatinization temperature, the conductivity becomes stable and linear, indicating that there are no more changes of phase. The starch gelatinization parameter, which was evaluated in the 4 types of starches using the electrical conductivity, was compared with those obtained by using differential scanning calorimeter (DSC). The onset temperature at which the electrical conductivity increased or decreased was found to be similar to that obtained by DSC. Also, the final temperature at which the electrical conductivity returned to linearity matched the end gelatinization temperature of the DSC. Further, a wet method for measuring the onset, peak, and end gelatinization temperatures as a function of temperature using the electrical conductivity curves is presented for a starch-water suspension.
1989611	Agmatine iminohydrolase (EC 3.5.3.12) was purified to homogeneity from the cytosol of soybean (Glycine max) axes by chromatographic separations on Sephadex G-25, Bio-rex 70, and agmatine-affinity columns. The enzyme was homogeneous by the criteria of analytical gel electrophoresis. Molecular weights estimated by Sephadex G-100 gel and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis were 70,000, indicating that the soybean axes enzyme is a monomer, in contrast to the dimeric enzymes from corn and rice. The isoelectric point determined by gel electrofocusing was 7.5, higher than that of the corn enzyme (4.7). The optimal pH and temperature for activity were 6.5 and 50 degrees C, respectively. The enzyme has high specificity for agmatine, and the Km for agmatine was 2.5 x 10(-3) molar. The enzyme was sensitive to Cu2+ and also was inhibited by p-hydroxymercuribenzoate.
19896253	Migration of (14)C derived from (14)C-acetic acid was examined by using soils sampled from paddies in four administrative areas in Japan (Aomori, Yamanashi, Ehime and Okinawa) and rice plant in a tracer experiment to understand the fate of (14)C in the paddy soil-to-rice plant system. The loss of (14)C radioactivity levels derived from (14)C-acetic acid was caused by soil microorganism breakdown. A part of the (14)C fixation to soil was caused by microbial assimilation into the fatty acid fraction. (14)C moved upward via two different types of (14)C dynamics in soil: quick movement upward; and constant but slow movement upward. (14)C was highly assimilated into the plant panicle and that was caused by the root-uptake and the transfer of (14)C. Migration of (14)C derived from (14)C-acetic acid relied heavily upon changes of chemical forms and characteristics of (14)C-compound as caused by microorganisms in soil.
19897605	Processing bodies (PBs) are specialized cytoplasmic foci where mRNA turnover and translational repression can take place. Stress granules are related cytoplasmic foci. The CCCH tandem zinc finger proteins (TZFs) play pivotal roles in gene expression, cell fate specification, and various developmental processes. Human TZF binds AU-rich elements at the 3' untranslated region and recruits decapping, deadenylation, and exonucleolytic enzymes to PBs for RNA turnover. Recent genetic studies indicate that plant TZFs are involved in gene regulation and hormone-mediated environmental responses. It is unknown if plant TZFs can bind RNA and be localized to PBs or stress granules. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AtTZF1/AtCTH/AtC3H23 was identified as a sugar-sensitive gene in a previous microarray study. It is characterized by a TZF motif that is distinct from the human TZF. Higher plants such as Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa) each have a gene family containing this unique TZF motif. Here, we show that AtTZF1 can traffic between the nucleus and cytoplasmic foci. AtTZF1 colocalizes with markers of PBs, and the morphology of these cytoplasmic foci resembles that of mammalian PBs and stress granules. AtTZF1-associated cytoplasmic foci are dynamic and tissue specific. They can be induced by dark and wound stresses and are preferentially present in actively growing tissues and stomatal precursor cells. Since AtTZF1 can bind both DNA and RNA in vitro, it raises the possibility that AtTZF1 might be involved in DNA and/or RNA regulation.
19897896	The rice branching enzyme I (BEI) overproduced in Escherichia coli cells was investigated with respect to action on starches. BEI treatment decreased the turbidity of starch suspensions with distinct pasting behaviors from a native starch. This result suggests the great potential of BEI as a molecular tool for the production of a novel glucan polymer.
19898772	Endogenous members of the family Caulimoviridae have now been found in the genomes of many plant species. Although these sequences are usually fragmented and rearranged and show varying degrees of decay, the genomes of the ancestral viruses can often be reassembled in silico, allowing classification within the existing viral taxonomic framework. In this paper, we describe analyses of endogenous members of the family Caulimoviridae in the genomes of Oryza sativa, Nicotiana tabacum and Solanum spp. and on the basis of phylogeny, genome organization and genetic distance within the pol gene, propose two new virus genera called Orendovirus and Solendovirus. A system of nomenclature for endogenous virus sequences in plants is also proposed.
19898814	One of the key steps in positional cloning and marker-aided selection is to identify marker(s) tightly linked to the target gene (i.e., fine mapping). Selective genotyping such as selective recombinant genotyping (SRG) is commonly used in fine mapping for cost-saving. To further decrease genotyping effort and rapidly screen for tightly linked markers, we propose here a combined DNA pooling and SRG strategy. A two-stage pooled genotyping can be used for identifying recombinants between a pair of flanking markers more efficiently, and a joint use of bulked DNA analysis and two-stage pooling can also save cost for genotyping recombinants. The combined DNA pooling and SRG strategy can further be extended to fine mapping for polygenic traits. The numerical results based on hypothetical scenarios and an illustrative application to fine mapping of a mutant gene, called xl(t), in rice suggest that the proposed strategy can remarkably reduce genotyping amount compared with the conventional SRG.
19899320	Presently, chemical seed treatments are in discussion due to their directly or indirectly impacts on human health or other living organisms. They may also negatively affect the ecosystem and the food chain. In rice seeds, chemicals may cause phytotoxic effects including seed degradation. Eugenol is the main component of clove (Eugenia caryophillis) oil, which was proved to act simultaneously as bactericide, virocide and especially fungicide. The in vitro study was aimed to compare the inhibitory effect of the following seed treatment substances against seed borne fungi and their shelf-life during 12 months of storage; conventional captan (CA), chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (CL), eugenol incorporated into chitosan-lignosulphonate polymer (E+CL) and control (CO). The obtained results of fungi inhibition were classified in three groups, which showed at first that CA treatment led to a better, i.e., longer, inhibitory effect on Alternaria padwickii, Rhizoctonia solani, Curvularia sp., Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus niger than E+CL. Secondly, E+CL coating polymer showed the longest inhibitory effect against Bipolaris oryzae and Nigrospora oryzae compared to CA and CL coating polymer. Finally, both CA and E+CL coating polymer had non-significant difference inhibitory effect on Fusarium moniliforme. The variant of CL coating polymer for seed coating was only during the first 6 months of storage able to inhibit all species of the observed seed borne fungi, whereas CA and E+CL coating polymer were capable to inhibit most of the fungi until 9 months of storage.
19899322	This study was aimed to evaluate the several chemical compounds of relatively composite structure with antifungal activity from Thai local medical plants. The antifungal activity of Stemona curtisii HK. f., Stemona tuberose L., Acorus calamus L., Eugenia caryophyllus, Memmea siamensis Kost. and an eugenol active compound were studied in vitro. Four pathogenic seed borne fungi, Alternaria solani, Colletotrichum sp., Fusarium moniliforme and Rhizoctonia solani were used as target organisms. The agar overlay technique and spore inhibition techniques were applied for the determination of their essential oil and active compound antifungal activity at various concentration; 0.10, 0.25, 0.50 and 1.00% (v/v) and untreated as control (0% v/v). Eugenol active compound showed the strongest antifungal activity on all species of tested fungal species. On the other hand, the antifungal activity of those bio-fungicides was lined up into a series from strong to low, as follows: Eugenia caryophyllus > Acorus calamus Linn. > Stemona tuberosa L. > Stemona curtisii Hk.f, while Mammea siamensis Kost. could not control any fungal species. Moreover, after eugenol application, lysis of spore and inhibition of mycelium growth were detected. Microscopic analysis exhibited complete lysis of spores after 24 h at a concentration of 1.00% v/v. Moreover, at the same concentration and 96 h incubation the mycelia growth was completely inhibited.
19899468	Taking a long-term fertilized rice-rape rotation system in Taihu Lake as test objective, its annual C balance and economic benefit were estimated, based on the measurement of past years grain yield, litter C content, and field CO2 emission as well as the investigation of material and management inputs. The calculated annual C sink under different fertilizations ranged from 0.9 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1) to 7.5 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1), and the net C sink effect under combined inorganic/organic fertilization was three folds as that under chemical fertilization. The C cost of material input ranged from 0.37 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1) to 1.13 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1), and that of management input ranged from 1.69 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1) to 1.83 t C x hm(-2) x a(-1). The annual economic benefit ranged from 5.8 x 10(3) CNY x hm(-2) x a(-1) to 16.5 x 10(3) CNY x hm(-2) x a(-1), and was 2.1 times higher under combined fertilization than under chemical fertilization. Comparing with that under chemical fertilization, the marginal cost for per ton C sink under combined inorganic/organic fertilization was estimated as 217.1 CNY x t(-1) C, very close to the C price of 20 Euro x t(-1) C in the EU. In sum, under combined inorganic/organic fertilization, this rice paddy ecosystem could not only have higher productivity, but also present greater net C sink effect and higher economic benefit, compared with under chemical fertilizer fertilization.
19899471	Based on field experiments with different rice varieties under different nitrogen application levels, the quantitative relationships of rice leaf area index (LAI) with canopy hyper-spectral parameters at different growth stages were analyzed. Rice LAI had good relationships with several hyper-spectral vegetation indices, the correlation coefficient being the highest with DI (difference index), followed by with RI (ratio index), and NI (normalized index), based on the spectral reflectance or the first derivative spectra. The two best spectral indices for estimating LAI were the difference index DI (854, 760) (based on two spectral bands of 850 nm and 760 nm) and the difference index DI (D676, D778) (based on two first derivative bands of 676 nm and 778 nm). In general, the hyper-spectral vegetation indices based on spectral reflectance performed better than the spectral indices based on the first derivative spectra. The tests with independent dataset suggested that the rice LAI monitoring models with difference index DI (854,760) as the variable could give an accurate LAI estimation, being available for estimation of rice LAI.
19899473	A hydroponic experiment was conducted with the four-leaf stage seedlings of aluminum (Al)-susceptible rice variety IR24 and Al-tolerant rice varieties Jingyou 725 and Liangyoupeijiu to study the physiological characteristics of the seedlings roots under effects of 0, 0.5 mmol x L(-1), and 7.5 mmol x L(-1) of Al. Under the stress of 7.5 mmol Al x L(-1), Al-tolerant varieties had a far lesser decrement of root vigor than Al-susceptible variety, while the Al-susceptible variety had a higher root mitochondria H2O2 content than Al-tolerant varieties. Al stress induced a lesser increment of CAT activity in the root mitochondria of all tested varieties. With the increasing Al concentration, the root mitochondria POD activity of IR24 and Jingyou 725 decreased after an initial increase while that of Liangyoupeijiu was increasing, and the root mitochondria APX activity of IR24 decreased after an initial increase while that of Jingyou 725 and Liangyoupeijiu was increasing. The root glutamic acid content of all tested varieties showed an increase-decline trend, and their citric acid content decreased while PEP content increased. The ratio of cyanide-resistant respiration rate to total respiration rate of Al-tolerant Jingyou 725 and Liangyoupeijiu increased obviously, compared with that of Al-susceptible IR24.
19899783	Because of the premature failure of in-service soft-body armor containing the ballistic fiber poly[(benzo-[1,2-d:5,4-d']-benzoxazole-2,6-diyl)-1,4-phenylene] (PBO), the Office of Law Enforcement Standards (OLES) at the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) initiated a research program to investigate the reasons for this failure and to develop testing methodologies and protocols to ensure that these types of failures do not reoccur. In a report that focused on the stability of the benzoxazole ring that is characteristic of PBO fibers, Holmes, G. A.; Rice, K.; Snyder, C. R. J. Mater. Sci. 2006, 41, 4105-4116, showed that the benzoxazole ring was susceptible to hydrolytic degradation under acid conditions. Because of the processing conditions for the fibers, it is suspected by many researchers that residual phosphoric acid may cause degradation of the benzoxazole ring resulting in a reduction of ballistic performance. Prior to this work, no definitive data have indicated the presence of phosphoric acid since the residual phosphorus is not easily extracted and the processed fibers are known to incorporate phosphorus containing processing aids. Methods to efficiently extract phosphorus from PBO are described in this article. Further, characterization determined that the majority of the extractable phosphorus in PBO was attributed to the octyldecyl phosphate processing aid with some phosphoric acid being detected. Analysis by matrix assisted laser desorption ionization of model PBO oligomers indicates that the nonextractable phosphorus is attached to the PBO polymer chain as a monoaryl phosphate ester. The response of model aryl phosphates to NaOH exposure indicates that monoaryl phosphate ester is stable to NaOH washes used in the manufacturing process to neutralize the phosphoric acid reaction medium and to extract residual phosphorus impurities.
19900027	Stroke is a life-changing event. It has been estimated that 15-30% of stroke patients become permanently disabled. Ischemic stroke accounts for approximately 60% of all stroke cases in China and will significantly increase the health burden because of the aging population. Effective primary prevention strategies are clearly required. In this article, dietary modifications that could play an important role in ischemic stroke prevention for the Chinese population are reviewed. These factors include the promotion of tea drinking, increasing consumption of soy foods, dairy products and fruits, as well as smoking cessation and reductions in salt intake and rice-based foods.
19901325	The mechanism of floral organ specification is principally conserved in angiosperms, as demonstrated by the ABC model. By contrast, mechanisms that regulate the development of organs or structures specific to a group of species remain unclear. Grasses have unique inflorescence units, comprising spikelets and florets. In the genus Oryza (rice), the single spikelet consists of a fertile floret subtended by a lemma and a palea, two sterile lemmas, and rudimentary glumes. Each sterile lemma is a tiny glume-like organ with a smooth surface. Here, we have examined a long sterile lemma1 (g1) mutant, in which the sterile lemma is enlarged like the lemma. Detailed phenotypic analysis reveals that the large sterile lemma in the g1 mutant appears to be caused by homeotic transformation of the sterile lemma into a lemma, suggesting that G1 is involved in the repression of lemma identity to specify the sterile lemma. Gene isolation reveals that G1 is a member of a plant-specific gene family that encodes proteins with a previously uncharacterized domain, named here ALOG (Arabidopsis LSH1 and Oryza G1). G1 mRNA is expressed in sterile lemma primordia throughout their development, and G1 protein is localized in the nucleus. A trans-activation assay using the yeast GAL4 system suggests that G1 is involved in transcriptional regulation. Repression of lemma identity by G1 is consistent with a hypothesis proposed to explain the morphological evolution of rice spikelets. We also show that a wild rice species, Oryza grandiglumis, that forms large sterile lemmas has serious mutations in the G1 gene.
19902950	The objective of this research is to verify the genotoxicity caused by pesticides used in irrigated rice cultures in Araranguá city in the southern Brazilian state of Santa Catarina through the alkaline comet assay in peripheral blood of Geophagus brasiliensis and to analyze the toxicity of the water using Daphnia magna as sentinel organism. Three collections of water and fish were made in the main rice ditch, and one collection for the control group was taken in the Araranguá River. The toxicity test with D. magna and the comet assay followed protocols previously described. The toxicity factor for the control group and collections 1, 2, and 3 were, respectively, 0, 1, 0, and 2. The comet assay demonstrated significant differences just in collection 2, in comparison to the control group and collections 1 and 3. These results, despite significant statistical data, are not a biological problem, because the values were not so large but serve to warn of a possible disruption of the balance in this environment system.
19903220	Transposons are effective mutagens alternative to T-DNA for the generation of insertional mutants in many plant species including those whose transformation is inefficient. The current strategies of transposon tagging are usually slow and labor-intensive and yield low frequency of tagged lines. We have constructed a series of transposon tagging vectors based on three approaches: (i) AcTPase controlled by glucocorticoid binding domain/VP16 acidic activation domain/Gal4 DNA-binding domain (GVG) chemical-inducible expression system; (ii) deletion of AcTPase via Cre-lox site-specific recombination that was initially triggered by Ds excision; and (iii) suppression of early transposition events in transformed rice callus through a dual-functional hygromycin resistance gene in a novel Ds element (HPT-Ds). We tested these vectors in transgenic rice and characterized the transposition events. Our results showed that these vectors are useful resources for functional genomics of rice and other crop plants. The vectors are freely available for the community.
19903225	Substrate selectivity of glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase (EC 2. 3. 1. 15) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) was explored in a comparative study of acyltransferases from seven plant species. In vitro labeling of acyl carrier protein (ACP) with (14)C or (3)H showed that acyltransferase from chill-sensitive plants, such as rice that uses either oleic (18:1) or palmitic acid (16:0) as acyl donor at comparable rates, displays lower selectivity than the enzyme from chill-resistant plants, such as spinach, which preferentially uses oleic acid (18:1) rather than palmitic acid (16:0) as an acyl donor. This may be a result of the size and character of the substrate-binding pocket of acyltransferase. Homology modeling and protein structure-based sequence alignment of acyltransferases revealed that proteins from either chill-sensitive or chill-tolerant plants shared a highly conserved domain containing the proposed substrate-binding pocket. However, the aligned residues surrounding the substrate-binding pocket are highly heterogeneous and may have an influence mainly on the size of the substrate binding pockets of acyltransferases. The substrate selectivity of acyltransferase of rice can be improved by enlarging the substrate-binding pocket using molecular biological methods.
19903384	Food packaging papers are not sterile, as the manufacturing is an open process, and the raw materials contain bacteria. We modeled the potential transfer of the Bacillus cereus spores from packaging paper to food by using a green fluorescent protein-expressing construct of Bacillus thuringiensis Bt 407Cry(-) [pHT315Omega(papha3-gfp)], abbreviated BT-1. Paper (260 g m(-2)) containing BT-1 was manufactured with equipment that allowed fiber formation similar to that of full-scale manufactured paper. BT-1 adhered to pulp during papermaking and survived similar to an authentic B. cereus. Rice and chocolate were exposed to the BT-1-containing paper for 10 or 30 days at 40 or 20 degrees C at relative air humidity of 10 to 60%. The majority of the spores remained immobilized inside the fiber web; only 0.001 to 0.03% transferred to the foods. This amount is low compared with the process hygiene criteria and densities commonly found in food, and it does not endanger food safety. To measure this, we introduced BT-1 spores into the paper in densities of 100 to 1,000 times higher than the amounts of the B. cereus group bacteria found in commercial paper. Of BT-1 spores, 0.03 to 0.1% transferred from the paper to fresh agar surface within 5 min of contact, which is more than to food during 10 to 30 days of exposure. The findings indicate that transfer from paper to dry food is restricted to those microbes that are exposed on the paper surface and readily detectable with a contact agar method.
19903405	Bacillus cereus is a gram-positive, spore-forming, facultative anaerobe that is responsible for two types of gastrointestinal diseases: emesis and diarrhea. A significant difference in the D(95 degrees C)-values of spores of the emetic and the diarrheal types was initially determined. A mixture of B. cereus spores of the diarrheal type was inoculated into cooked rice. At inoculation levels of 2.5 x 10(2) spores per g of rice, cell numbers of 6.64 log were detected after 22 h at 20 degrees C and 6.81 log after 34 h at 17 degrees C, whereas at 12 degrees C the counts did not go above 4.0 log even after 48 h. When added to raw rice before cooking at inoculum levels of 10(3)/g, the number of viable spores decreased by 2 log, and a <1-log increase in cell numbers occurred after holding at 20 degrees C for 24 h. In contrast, the emetic spores survived and increased approximately 20-fold. Nonhemolytic enterotoxin was not detected in cooked rice at cell numbers of 8.0 log. Results here provide evidence that the absence of foodborne illness caused by the B. cereus diarrheal biotype with rice as the vehicle is due to the inability of their spores to survive and grow following standard heat processing procedures.
19903408	Cooked and packed rice (CaPR), a popular rice product in Japan, is distributed with oxygen-absorbing agents and without refrigeration. When the final product was inoculated with spores of several strains of proteolytic Clostridium botulinum at a dose of 10(3) spores per g (2 x 10(5) spores per package) and incubated at 30 degrees C, the bacteria grew and produced neurotoxins in 40 days. To simulate more realistic cases of contamination, the same dose of spores was inoculated before the cooking process. When cooked at 100 degrees C for 30 min, a small number of spores survived and the toxins were detected in some of the samples after incubation for 180 days. However, when cooked at 100 degrees C for 15 min immediately followed by 105 degrees C for 15 min, neither survivors nor the toxins were detected during incubation for 270 days after cooking. Even when inoculated with 10(5) spores per g of one of the most heat-resistant strains, 213B, viable spores were not detected after cooking. The inactivation by these heating conditions in different media indicated that the spores were inactivated >1,000-fold more in rice suspension than in cooked meat medium or phosphate buffer. It was therefore suggested that rice contains component(s) that facilitates thermal inactivation of C. botulinum.
19903869	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small silencing RNAs with regulatory roles in gene expression. miRNAs interact with Argonaute (AGO) proteins to form effector complexes that cleave target mRNAs or repress translation. Rice (Oryza sativa) encodes four AGO1 homologs (AGO1a, AGO1b, AGO1c, and AGO1d). We used RNA interference (RNAi) to knock down the four AGO1s. The RNAi lines displayed pleiotropic developmental phenotypes and had increased accumulation of miRNA targets. AGO1a, AGO1b, and AGO1c complexes were purified and further characterized. The three AGO1s all have a strong preference for binding small RNAs (sRNAs) with 5' U and have Slicer activity. We cataloged the sRNAs in each AGO1 complex by deep sequencing and found that all three AGO1s predominantly bound known miRNAs. Most of the miRNAs were evenly distributed in the three AGO1 complexes, suggesting a redundant role for the AGO1s. Intriguingly, a subset of miRNAs were specifically incorporated into or excluded from one of the AGO1s, suggesting functional specialization among the AGO1s. Furthermore, we identified rice miRNA targets at a global level. The validated targets include transcription factors that control major stages of development and also genes involved in a variety of physiological processes, indicating a broad regulatory role for miRNAs in rice.
19903943	A chicken growth study was conducted to determine if litter type influenced gut microbiota and performance in broilers. Seven bedding materials were investigated and included soft and hardwood sawdust, softwood shavings, shredded paper, chopped straw, rice hulls, and reused softwood shavings. Microbial profiling was done to investigate changes in cecal bacterial communities associated with litter material and age. Cecal microbiota were investigated at 14 and 28 d of age (n = 12 birds/litter material). At both ages, the cecal microbiota of chickens raised on reused litter was significantly (P < 0.05) different from that of chickens raised on any of the other litter materials, except softwood shavings at d 28. Cecal microbiota was also significantly different between birds raised on shredded paper and rice hulls at both ages. Age had a significant influence on cecal microbiota composition regardless of litter material. Similarity in cecal microbial communities among birds raised on the same litter treatment was greater at 28 d of age (29 to 40%) than at 14 d of age (25 to 32%). Bird performance on the different litter materials was measured by feed conversion ratio, live weight, and feed intake. Significant (P < 0.05) differences were detected in live weight at 14 d of age and feed intake at 14 and 28 d of age among birds (n = 160/treatment) raised on some of the different litter materials. However, no significant (P > 0.05) differences were observed in feed conversion ratio among birds raised on any of the 7 different litter materials at either 14 or 28 d of age. The type of litter material can influence colonization and development of cecal microbiota in chickens. Litter-induced changes in the gut microbiota may be partially responsible for some of the significant differences observed in early rates of growth; therefore, litter choice may have an important role in poultry gut health particularly in the absence of in-feed antibiotics.
19904499	Rice Oryza sativa accelerated cell death and resistance 1 (OsACDR1) encodes a putative Raf-like mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase (MAPKKK). We had previously reported upregulation of the OsACDR1 transcript by a range of environmental stimuli involved in eliciting defense-related pathways. Here we apply biochemical, gain and loss-of-function approaches to characterize OsACDR1 function in rice. The OsACDR1 protein showed autophosphorylation and possessed kinase activity. Rice plants overexpressing OsACDR1 exhibited spontaneous hypersensitive response (HR)-like lesions on leaves, upregulation of defense-related marker genes and accumulation of phenolic compounds and secondary metabolites (phytoalexins). These transgenic plants also acquired enhanced resistance to a fungal pathogen (Magnaporthe grisea) and showed inhibition of appressorial penetration on the leaf surface. In contrast, loss-offunction and RNA silenced OsACDR1 rice mutant plants showed downregulation of defense-related marker genes expressions and susceptibility to M. grisea. Furthermore, transient expression of an OsACDR1:GFP fusion protein in rice protoplast and onion epidermal cells revealed its localization to the nucleus. These results indicate that OsACDR1 plays an important role in the positive regulation of disease resistance in rice.
19904935	Colored grains including red, purple, and black rice, purple corn, black barley, and black soybean contain anthocyanins. The present study was designed to (i) identify and quantify the individual anthocyanins and measure the total phenolic content (TPC), (ii) evaluate the antioxidant and alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity, and (iii) correlate the TPC with total antioxidant activity and alpha-glucosidase inhibitory potency in these colored grains. The TPC was measured using a Folin-Ciocalteu assay, while the total antioxidant activity was determined by a method based on the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical-scavenging activity. Among all of the studied colored grains, black rice possessed the highest TPC, which was 86 times greater than that of red rice. In addition, black rice had the highest total anthocyanin contents and alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity. A significant positive correlation of the antioxidant activity and alpha-glucosidase inhibitory activity with total anthocyanin content and TPC was observed in this study. It is concluded that black rice possesses the highest antioxidant activity and alpha-glucosidase inhibitory among all of the colored grains tested and can be further explored as a functional food.
19907723	To compare wear performance and resistance to crack propagation (K1C) of commercial restorative materials and their flowable variations. A potential correlation between three-body wear and fracture toughness, modulus of elasticity, fracture work, Vickers hardness, and filler content was investigated. Seven restoratives (five composites, one ormocer, and one compomer) and their corresponding flowable materials were used to determine and compare the three-body wear with a bolus of millet-seed shells and rice food (Willytec). The wear characteristics were measured by profilometry after 50,000, 100,000, 150,000, and 200,000 loading cycles. The fracture toughness value, K1C (MPam1/2), for each single-edged notched specimen was measured in a three-point bending test (universal testing machine 1446, Zwick). Fracture work and modulus of elasticity were calculated from the load curves. Vickers hardness was measured (HV hardness tester, Zwick) according to DIN 50133. The veneering composite Sinfony (3M ESPE) was used as a reference material. Heavily filled composites experienced less wear than their flowable variations. The nanofiller composites revealed better wear results than hybrid composites, compomers, and ormocers. After 200,000 load cycles, the lowest wear rates were detected for Grandio (14 microm; Voco), and the highest mean values were found for Dyract AP (104 microm; Dentsply DeTrey). The values for fracture toughness (K1C) ranged from 0.82 to 3.64 MPam1/2. Highest K1C data was exhibited by the nanocomposite Nanopaq (Schutz Dental). All tested restorative materials exhibited higher fracture toughness than their low-viscosity variations. The wear resistance of the newer generation composites with incorporated nanofiller or microfiller particles increased to a high extent. Flowables show less resistance against wear and crack propagation because of their lower filler content. The reduced mechanical properties limit their use as a restorative to small noncontact, low-stress clinical situations.
19910093	In an extensive environmental study, field samples, including soil, water, rice, vegetable, fish, human hair and urine, were collected at an abandoned tungsten mine in Shantou City, southern China. Results showed that arsenic (As) concentration in agricultural soils ranged from 3.5 to 935 mg kg(-1) with the mean value of 129 mg kg(-1). In addition, As concentration reached up to 325 microg L(-1) in the groundwater, and the maximum As concentration in local food were 1.09, 2.38 and 0.60 mg kg(-1) for brown rice, vegetable and fish samples, respectively, suggesting the local water resource and food have been severely contaminated with As. Health impact monitoring data revealed that As concentrations in hair and urine samples were up to 2.92 mg kg(-1) and 164 microg L(-1), respectively, indicating a potential health risk among the local residents. Effective measurements should be implemented to protect the local community from the As contamination in the environment.
19910532	Plant pathogenic bacteria of the genus Xanthomonas inject transcription-activator like (TAL) effector proteins that manipulate the hosts' transcriptome to promote disease. However, in some cases plants take advantage of this mechanism to trigger defense responses. For example, transcription of the pepper Bs3 and rice Xa27 resistance (R) genes are specifically activated by the respective TAL effectors AvrBs3 from Xanthomonas campestris pv. vesicatoria (Xcv), and AvrXa27 from X. oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Recognition of AvrBs3 was shown to be mediated by interaction with the corresponding UPT (UPregulated by TAL effectors) box UPT(AvrBs3) present in the promoter R gene Bs3 from the dicot pepper. In contrast, it was not known how the Xoo TAL effector AvrXa27 transcriptionally activates the matching R gene Xa27 from the monocot rice. Here we identified a 16-bp UPT(AvrXa27) box present in the rice Xa27 promoter that when transferred into the Bs3 promoter confers AvrXa27-dependent inducibility. We demonstrate that polymorphisms between the UPT(AvrXa27) box of the AvrXa27-inducible Xa27 promoter and the corresponding region of the noninducible xa27 promoter account for their distinct inducibility and affinity, with respect to AvrXa27. Moreover, we demonstrate that three functionally distinct UPT boxes targeted by separate TAL effectors retain their function and specificity when combined into one promoter. Given that many economically important xanthomonads deliver multiple TAL effectors, the engineering of R genes capable of recognizing multiple TAL effectors provides a potential approach for engineering broad spectrum and durable disease resistance.
19911132	The genome of rice dwarf phytoreovirus (RDV) is composed of 12 double-stranded RNA segments, of which segment S6 encodes a non-structural protein Pns6 identified as the movement protein. In this report, Pns6 with a 6-histidine tag at the N-terminal was expressed in E. coli after induction under low temperature (18 degrees C) and low concentration (0.4 mmol/L and 0.2 mmol/L) of IPTG, and then purified by Ni-chelated affinity chromatography. Stability analysis indicated that the expressed HisPns6 protein was stable at 37 degrees C after 24 h treatment. This recombinant protein was then used to make monoclonal antibody. Total 18 hybridoma clones were obtained. The specificity of antibodies was tested by Western blot using native Pns6 extracted from RDV-infected rice leaves, and 15 positive clones were confirmed. Mapping of the antigenic sites of Pns6 using antibodies showed that the most sensitive antigen determinant is located in the C-terminal region (the 296th-509th amino acids) of Pns6, which is confirms bioinformatics analysis.
19911565	Pomacea canaliculata snails pose a severe problem to direct seeded rice cultivated in Southern Brazil. Control of this snail is nowadays performed with toxic chemicals such as copper sulfate and fungicides such as fentin. A novel natural molluscicide based on alkali modified quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa) saponins was tested under laboratory conditions. Snails were collected in rice fields close to Porto Alegre (State of Rio Grande do Sul) and in Brusque (State of Santa Catarina, 400 km north of Porto Alegre). In Santa Catarina the product was very effective, while in Porto Alegre it had no effect. This unexpected behavior was probably due to the respiratory habits of the snails under different contents of dissolved oxygen in the water. Near Porto Alegre the water used in rice fields is heavily polluted, with dissolved oxygen levels of 1-2 ppm, and the snails rely primarily on their siphon and lungs to breathe. Since saponin control is probably due to an interaction between saponins with the sterols present in the cell walls in the gills, no control was observed. By contrast, in Santa Catarina the dissolved oxygen level of the water is 5-6 ppm, and the snails remain mostly underwater, breathing with their gills. In this case the snails died within 24 h at a dose of 20 and 30 ppm of product. To test this observation, snails grown in polluted waters were forced to remain underwater in saponin solutions and water (control) preventing the use of their siphon to breathe. The snails exposed to saponin solutions died, while the control snails survived, indicating that they were still able to use their gills to breathe. These results indicate that the use of the saponin product is limited to rice fields not irrigated with heavily polluted waters.
19912433	To isolate and characterize microbes in the soils containing high contents of phenolics and to dissolve the allelopathic inhibition of plants through microbial degradation. Four microbes were isolated from plant soils using a screening medium containing p-coumaric acid as sole carbon source. The isolates were identified by biochemical analysis and sequences of their 16S or 18S rDNA, and designated as Pseudomonas putida 4CD1 from rice (Oryza sativa) soil, Ps. putida 4CD3 from pine (Pinus massoniana) soil, Pseudomonas nitroreducens 4CD2 and Rhodotorula glutinis 4CD4 from bamboo (Bambusa chungii) soil. All isolates degraded 1 g l(-1) of p-coumaric acid by 70-93% in inorganic and by 99% in Luria-Bertani solutions within 48 h. They also effectively degraded ferulic acid, p-hydroxybenzoic acid and p-hydroxybenzaldehyde. The microbes can degrade p-coumaric acid and reverse its inhibition on seed germination and seedling growth in culture solutions and soils. Low pHs inhibited the growth and phenolic degradation of the three bacteria. High temperature inhibited the R. glutinis. Co(2+) completely inhibited the three bacteria, but not the R. glutinis. Cu(2+), Al(3+), Zn(2+), Fe(3+), Mn(2+), Mg(2+) and Ca(2+) had varying degrees of inhibition for each of the bacteria. Phenolics in plant culture solutions and soils can be decomposed through application of soil microbes in laboratory or controlled conditions. However, modification of growth conditions is more important for acidic and ions-contaminated media. The four microbes were first isolated and characterized from the soils of bamboo, rice or pine. This study provides some evidence and methods for microbial control of phenolic allelochemicals.
19912666	Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.), an important grain legume crop of the world is seriously challenged by terminal drought and salinity stresses. However, very limited number of molecular markers and candidate genes are available for undertaking molecular breeding in chickpea to tackle these stresses. This study reports generation and analysis of comprehensive resource of drought- and salinity-responsive expressed sequence tags (ESTs) and gene-based markers. A total of 20,162 (18,435 high quality) drought- and salinity- responsive ESTs were generated from ten different root tissue cDNA libraries of chickpea. Sequence editing, clustering and assembly analysis resulted in 6,404 unigenes (1,590 contigs and 4,814 singletons). Functional annotation of unigenes based on BLASTX analysis showed that 46.3% (2,965) had significant similarity (< or =1E-05) to sequences in the non-redundant UniProt database. BLASTN analysis of unique sequences with ESTs of four legume species (Medicago, Lotus, soybean and groundnut) and three model plant species (rice, Arabidopsis and poplar) provided insights on conserved genes across legumes as well as novel transcripts for chickpea. Of 2,965 (46.3%) significant unigenes, only 2,071 (32.3%) unigenes could be functionally categorised according to Gene Ontology (GO) descriptions. A total of 2,029 sequences containing 3,728 simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were identified and 177 new EST-SSR markers were developed. Experimental validation of a set of 77 SSR markers on 24 genotypes revealed 230 alleles with an average of 4.6 alleles per marker and average polymorphism information content (PIC) value of 0.43. Besides SSR markers, 21,405 high confidence single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 742 contigs (with > or = 5 ESTs) were also identified. Recognition sites for restriction enzymes were identified for 7,884 SNPs in 240 contigs. Hierarchical clustering of 105 selected contigs provided clues about stress- responsive candidate genes and their expression profile showed predominance in specific stress-challenged libraries. Generated set of chickpea ESTs serves as a resource of high quality transcripts for gene discovery and development of functional markers associated with abiotic stress tolerance that will be helpful to facilitate chickpea breeding. Mapping of gene-based markers in chickpea will also add more anchoring points to align genomes of chickpea and other legume species.
19914587	Bioethanol production from rice washing drainage and rice bran derived from a rinse-free process of rice manufacturing was established using the combinations of an enzymatic procedure and an ultra-sonic procedure of rice washing drainage for a sample pre-treatment. The maximum ethanol concentration was attained at 6.2% (v/v).
1991502	Electrophoresis of midgut extracts from the rice weevil, Sitophilus oryzae, and the red flour beetle, Tribolium castaneum, in polyacrylamide gels containing sodium dodecyl sulfate and gelatin revealed there was one major proteinase (apparent molecular mass = 40,000) in the rice weevil and two major proteinases (apparent molecular masses = 20,000 and 17,000) in the red flour beetle. The pH optima using [3H]casein as substrate were about pH 6.8 for the rice weevil and pH 5.2 for the red flour beetle. Use of specific inhibitors, including L-trans-epoxysuccinyl-leucylamino-(4- guanidino)-butane (E-64), p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonic acid (PCMS), and oryzacystatin, indicated that nearly all of the proteinase activity against casein was contributed by cysteine proteinases. The estimated IC50 values for oryzacystatin were 2 x 10(-6) M and 4 x 10(-7) M when tested against midgut extracts from T. castaneum and S. oryzae, respectively.
19916179	To elucidate etiologic associations between Helicobacter pylori (H pylori), lifestyle, environmental factors and gastric cardiac adenocarcinoma (GCA) among men. A hospital-based case-control study was conducted in Taiwan from 2000 to 2009. All cases were newly confirmed as primary GCA. Five controls were selected matching with age, sex, and admission date to each case. Participants were informed of potential risk factors with a structured questionnaire by trained interviewers during hospitalization and provided a blood sample for the determination of H pylori infection. Odds ratio (OR) and 95% confidence interval (95% CI) were used to evaluate risk, and a multivariate conditional logistic regression model was performed. All participants recruited for this study were men, consisting of 41 cases and 205 controls. Results of the univariate analysis showed that significant factors associated with the etiology of GCA included H pylori (OR = 2.69, 95% CI = 1.30-5.53), cigarette smoking (OR = 2.28, 95% CI = 1.05-4.96), working or exercising after meals (OR = 3.26, 95% CI = 1.31-8.11), salted food (OR = 2.51, 95%CI = 1.08-6.11), fresh vegetables (OR = 0.28, 95% CI = 0.09-0.80), fruits (OR = 0.19, 95% CI = 0.04-0.89), and rice as principal food (OR = 0.53, 95% CI = 0.30-0.85). Multivariate conditional logistic regression models indicated that a significantly elevated risk of contracting GCA was associated with working or exercising after meals (OR = 3.18, 95% CI = 1.23-9.36) and H pylori infection (OR = 2.93, 95% CI = 1.42-6.01). In contrast, the consumption of fresh vegetables (OR = 0.22, 95% CI = 0.06-0.83), fruits (OR = 0.28, 95% CI = 0.09-0.79) and rice as principal food (OR = 0.48, 95% CI = 0.24-0.93) remained as significant beneficial factor associated with GCA. Working or exercising after meals and H pylori infection increase the risk of GCA, but higher intakes of rice, fresh vegetables and fruits reduce the risk.
19916388	An interlaboratory study was performed in six laboratories to prove the validation of the ELISA method developed for quantitative determination of beta-lactoglobulin (BLG) in foods. The ELISA kit used for this study is based on rabbit polyclonal antibody. In-house validation of the kit did not produce false-positive results or cross-reactivity in a broad range of food matrixes containing no milk proteins. All participants obtained the BLG kit with a standard operational procedure, the list of the samples, samples, and a protocol for recording test results. The study included 14 food samples (extruded breakfast cereals, bread, two soy desserts, butter, chicken ham, chicken meat, wheat flour, long grain rice, jelly, two whey drinks, crackers, and bitter chocolate) and six spiked samples (two rice, two wheat flour, and two chicken meat). Nine samples of food matrixes containing no milk proteins showed BLG content lower than the first standard (0.15 mg/kg). Two samples of food matrixes with no milk proteins revealed BLG content higher than standard 3 (1.5 mg/100 g) and standard 4 (5.0 mg/100 g). Three food samples containing milk were tested as positive, and all spiked samples were evaluated as positive. The statistical tests (Cochran, Dixon, and Mandel) and analysis of variance were used to evaluate the interlaboratory study results. Repeatability and reproducibility limits, as well as LOQ (0.22 mg BLG/kg) and LOD (0.07 mg BLG/kg), for the kit were calculated.
19916569	In human, highly expressed genes contain shorter and fewer introns and these have been attributed to selection for economy in transcription and translation. On the other hand, in plants, it has been shown that highly expressed genes tend to be longer than lowly expressed genes. Here, in this study, we analyzed compositional influence on genome organization in both rice and human. We demonstrated that, in GC rich rice genes, highly expressed genes are less compact than lowly expressed genes. In GC-poor class, there is no difference in gene compactness between highly and lowly expressed genes. However, the scenario is different for human as there is no influence of GC composition on gene compactness due to their expression levels. We also reported that, highly expressed rice GC-rich pre-mRNA tend to form less stable secondary structure than that of lowly expressed genes. However, on removing intronic sequences, highly expressed mRNA form a stable secondary structure as compared to lowly expressed GC-rich genes. We suggest that in GC-rich rice genes long introns are under selection for enhancing transcriptional efficiency by modulating pre-mRNA secondary structural stability. Thus evolutionary mechanisms behind genome organization are different between these two genomes (human and rice).
19917452	Cinnamon and vinegar or acetic acid were reported to reduce the postprandial blood glucose response. We hypothesized that the combination of these substances might result in an additive effect. Therefore, we determined the 2-hour postprandial blood glucose and satiety response to a milk rice meal supplemented with either cinnamon or acetic acid on their own or in combination. Subjects (n = 27) consumed the meal on 4 occasions as either pure (control trial), with 4 g cinnamon, 28 mmol acetic acid, or the combination of cinnamon + acetic acid. Blood glucose and satiety were assessed before eating and 15, 30, 45, 60, 90, and 120 minutes postprandially. At 15 minutes, the combination of cinnamon + acetic acid resulted in a significantly reduced blood glucose concentration compared with the control meal (P = .021). The incremental area under the blood glucose response curve over 120 minutes did, however, not differ between the trials (P = .539). The satiety score of the cinnamon + acetic acid trial was significantly higher than that in the control trial at 15 (P = .024) and 30 minutes (P = .024), but the incremental area under the curve of the satiety response did not differ (P = .116) between the trials. In conclusion, the significant effect of the combination of cinnamon and acetic acid on blood glucose and satiety immediately after meal intake indicated an additive effect of the 2 substances. Whether larger doses of cinnamon and acetic acid may result in a more substantial additive effect on blood glucose or satiety remains to be investigated.
19919509	In vitro solubility of calcium, iron and zinc in relation to phytic acid (PA) levels in 30 commercial rice-based foods from China was studied. Solubility of minerals and molar ratios of PA to minerals varied with degrees of processing. In primary products, [PA]/[Ca] values were less than 5 and [PA]/[Fe] and [PA]/[Zn] similarly ranged between 5 and 74, with most values between 20 and 30. [PA]/[mineral] molar ratios in intensively processed products were lower. Solubility of calcium ranged from 0% to 87%, with the lowest in brown rice (12%) and the highest in infant foods (50%). Iron solubility in two-thirds of samples was lower than 30%, and that of zinc narrowly ranged from 6% to 30%. Solubility of minerals was not significantly affected by [PA]/[mineral]. At present, neither primary nor intensively processed rice-based products are good dietary sources of minerals. Improvements should be attempted by dephytinization, mineral fortification or, preferably, combination of both.
19919514	The nutritive value of 33 dishes commonly consumed in the state of Kuwait was analyzed. On a fresh weight basis, the moisture content of the dishes ranged from 0.29% to 94.37%, protein content from 0.65% to 24.80%, and fat content from 0.03% to 59.22%. The crude fiber ranged from a low value of 0.04% to a maximum of 2.31%; with the exception of four dishes-Sw-20 (Samsamia), Sw-26 (Harda), V-31 (Hameesat Mushroom), V-32 (Hameesat Fagae)-all dishes had a low fiber level, <1 g/100 g. The ash content ranged from 0.09% to 3.66%. Carbohydrate showed a variation between 3.98% and 81.37%; the highest carbohydrate values were in sweets and rice-based dishes, while the lowest values were in soup and cheese dishes. The energy content of the dishes varied between 19 and 675 kcal/100 g (80-2,823 kJ/100 g). The dishes contributed 5-90%, 1-46% and 1-83% of the total food energy from carbohydrate, protein and fat, respectively.
19919516	Milled rice is the staple food among Filipinos and is mostly consumed three times a day. Rice as a source of iron could therefore have an important role in the existing 37% prevalence of iron-deficiency anemia in the country. Previous iron absorption studies in Filipinos from rice and rice-based meals were carried out on milled rice but no research was done on brown rice of the same variety. This leads to the hypothesis that brown rice may be better than milled rice in terms of iron content. To determine iron absorption from brown rice and brown rice-based meal, and from milled rice and milled rice-based meal of the same variety. The rice variety used in the study was F(2) seeds of PSB Rc72H. Iron absorption from brown/milled rice and brown/milled rice-based meals was determined in 12 healthy human subjects from the incorporation of radioisotopes of iron into erythrocytes 14 days after administration of the labeled rice/rice-based meals. The above samples were also analyzed for nutrient content, including dietary fiber, and iron. The iron content of brown rice was significantly higher (1.1 +/- 0.1 mg/100 g) than that of milled rice (0.6 +/- 0.1 mg/100 g). Brown rice has significantly greater amounts of total dietary fiber (5.4 +/- 0.4%) than milled rice (1.7 +/- 0.2%; P < 0.05). Both tannic acid and phytic acid contents in brown rice (56.9 +/- 3.2 mg/100 g and 290.1 +/- 18.0 mg/100 g, respectively) were significantly higher than those of milled rice (21.3 +/- 2.3 mg/100 g and 84.0 +/- 12.4 mg/100 g, respectively; P<0.05). The amount of iron absorbed from brown rice (0.13 +/- 0.02 mg) did not differ significantly from that from milled rice (0.14 +/- 0.02 mg). However, the amount from brown rice-based meal (0.36 +/- 0.04 mg) differed significantly from that from brown rice (P<0.05) as well as that from milled rice-based meal (0.35 +/- 0.03 mg) from that from milled rice (P<0.05). Moreover, brown rice-based meal did not differ significantly from milled rice-based meal (P<0.05). Iron absorbed from milled rice and brown rice did not differ significantly, as well as that from brown rice-based meal and milled rice-based meal. Differences in iron absorbed from brown/milled rice and brown/milled rice-based meals may be due to the iron content of the test foods and the presence of iron enhancers in the meal (e.g. fish, vegetables and citrus fruit).
19919949	Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1) is a cell death suppression factor widely conserved in higher plants and animals. Overexpression of Arabidopsis BI-1 (AtBI-1) in plants confers tolerance to various cell death-inducible stresses. However, apart from the cell death-suppressing activity, little is known about the physiological roles of BI-1-overexpressing plants. In this study, we evaluated the effects of AtBI-1 overexpression on the rice metabolome in response to oxidative stress. AtBI-1-overexpressing rice cells in suspension displayed enhanced tolerance to menadione-induced oxidative stress compared with vector control cells, whereas AtBI-1 overexpression did not influence the increase of intracellular H(2)O(2) concentration or inhibition of oxidative stress-sensitive aconitase activity. Capillary electrophoresis-mass spectrometry (CE-MS)-based metabolome analysis revealed dynamic metabolic changes in oxidatively stressed rice cells, e.g. depletion of the central metabolic pathway, imbalance of the redox state and energy charge, and accumulation of amino acids. Furthermore, comparative metabolome analysis demonstrated that AtBI-1 overexpression did not affect primary metabolism in rice cells under normal growth conditions but significantly altered metabolite composition within several distinct pathways under cell death-inducible oxidative stress. The AtBI-1-mediated metabolic alteration included recovery of the redox state and energy charge, which are known as important factors for metabolic defense against oxidative stress. These observations suggest that although AtBI-1 does not affect rice metabolism directly, its cell death suppression activity leads to enhanced capacity to acclimate oxidative stress.
19921413	Structural analysis of a cytosolic glutamine synthetase from Camellia sinensis (CsGS) has been conducted employing computational techniques. This was conducted to compare its structural aspects with other known structures of GS. The disordered residues and their distribution in CsGS are in close comparison to earlier reported GS. The 3-D structure of CsGS also showed high degree of similarity with the only known crystal structure of GS from Zea mays. The K (m) values observed with recombinant CsGS for all the three substrates are higher compared to rice, Arabidopsis, maize and human. This suggests lower affinity of CsGS for substrates. Further, kinetic mechanism of CsGS catalysis was investigated using initial velocity analysis and product inhibition studies. Initial velocity data eliminate the possibility of ping-pong mechanism and favor the random mechanism of catalysis. Through product inhibition studies, ADP was found to be a competitive inhibitor with respect to ATP and noncompetitive inhibitor versus both glutamate and ammonium. While, glutamine and inorganic phosphate were found to be non-competitive inhibitors of ATP, glutamate and ammonia. Taken together, these observations are consistent with a random catalysis mechanism for the CsGS where the binding order of certain substrates is kinetically preferred by the enzyme.
19921713	The polyploid weed Schoenoplectus mucronatus (L.) Palla has evolved target-site resistance to ALS-inhibiting herbicides in Italian rice crops. Molecular and genetic characterisation of the resistance mechanism is relevant to the evolution and management of herbicide resistance. The authors aimed (a) to study the organisation of the target-site loci in two field-selected S. mucronatus populations with different cross-resistance patterns, (b) to identify the mutations endowing resistance to ALS inhibitors and determine the role of these mutations by using transgenesis and (c) to analyse the implications for the management of the S. mucronatus populations. Two complete ALS genes (ALS1 and ALS2) having an intron and a third partial intronless ALS gene (ALS3) were identified. The presence of multiple ALS genes was confirmed by Southern blot analyses, and ALS loci were characterised by examining cytosine methylation. In S. mucronatus leaves, the transcripts of ALS1, ALS2 and ALS3 were detected. Two mutations endowing resistance (Pro(197) to His and Trp(574) to Leu) were found in both resistant populations, but at different frequencies. Tobacco plants transformed with the two resistant alleles indicated that the Pro(197)-to-His substitution conferred resistance to SU and TP herbicides, while the allele with the Trp(574)-to-Leu substitution conferred cross-resistance to SU, TP, IMI and PTB herbicides. Schoenoplectus mucronatus has multiple ALS genes characterised by methylated sites that can influence the expression profile. The two mutated alleles proved to be responsible for ALS resistance. At population level, the resistance pattern depends on the frequency of various resistant genotypes, and this influences the efficacy of various ALS-inhibiting herbicides.
19922443	Sexually antagonistic polymorphisms are polymorphisms in which the allele that is advantageous in one sex is deleterious in the other sex. In an influential 1984 paper, W. Rice hypothesized that such polymorphisms should be relatively common on the X chromosome (or on the W in female-heterogametic species) but relatively rare on the autosomes. Here, I show that there are plausible assumptions under which the reverse is expected to be true, and point out recent studies that give evidence for sexually antagonistic variation on the autosomes. Although more work is needed to resolve the issue, it is premature to conclude that the X chromosome is a "hot spot" for the accumulation of sexually antagonistic variation.
19922495	To clarify the association of tooth loss with dietary intakes among dentists, for whom sufficient dental care is available. We analyzed the data from 20 366 Japanese dentists (mean age +/- SD, 52.2 +/- 12.1 years; women 8.0%) who participated in a nationwide cohort study from 2001 to 2006. The baseline questionnaire included a validated food-frequency questionnaire to estimate intakes of foods and nutrients. We computed the geometric means of daily intakes by the number of teeth, adjusting for age, sex, smoking, physical activity, and history of diabetes. The mean intakes of some key nutrients and food groups, such as carotene, vitamins A and C, milk and dairy products, and vegetables including green-yellow vegetables, decreased with the increasing number of teeth lost (P for trend <0.05). On the contrary, mean intakes of carbohydrate, rice, and confectioneries were increased among those with fewer teeth (P for trend <0.05). The difference in the geometric mean (%) between totally edentulous subjects and those with > or =25 teeth, that is [(Geometric mean for > or =25 teeth) - (Geometric mean for 0 teeth)]/(Geometric mean for > or =25 teeth) x 100, was 14.3%, 8.6%, 6.1%, and -6.1% for carotene, vitamin C, vitamin A, and carbohydrate, respectively. For food groups, it was 26.3%, 11.9%, 5.6%, -9.5%, and -29.6% for milk and dairy products, green-yellow vegetables, total vegetables, rice, and confectioneries, respectively. Tooth loss was linked with poorer nutrition even among dentists.
19922698	This paper presents investigations of segregation distortion of six rice F2 populations generated from reciprocal F1 hybrids grown at three locations varied at altitudes from 400 to 2200 m. The F1s were derived from reciprocal crosses between cv. XMG, which is a japonica landrace traditionally grown at 2650 m altitude, and cv. N34, which is a japonica restorer possessing a fertility restoring (Rf) gene and cytoplasm of male sterility (CMS) donated by an indica cultivar. Among nine morphological traits of the F2 populations, only one was in normal distribution, eight were distorted in all or at least one population. Out of 16 polymorphic PCR markers, 10 markers distributed on 7 chromosomes were significantly distorted. Among these markers, RMAN7 and RM257 were distorted in both of the reciprocal populations, which suggested that nuclear genes had strong effects on segregation distortion. The other makers were distorted only in the populations with cytoplasm donated by XMG or N34. The results indicated that segregation of DNA markers was affected by cytoplasm background. Segregation distribution was also affected by altitude, since segregation distortions of most of the markers were detected not in all the three populations generated from F1 grown at the three altitudes, but only in one population from F1 grown at one altitude. Marker M45461, which is located within Rf-1 locus, was severely distorted towards N34 in all the populations with cytoplasm donated by N34, but not in the populations with cytoplasm provided by XMG. The results indicated that interaction between CMS and Rf gene had strong effects on distortion. Results of this study indicated that japonica cytoplasm did not cause distortion favouring a special parent, but indica cytoplasm made distortion favouring a maternal parent. The results suggested that indica cytoplasm was not well compatible with japonica nuclear background, while japonica cytoplasm did not have such trouble with indica nuclei. This study also found that the six F2 populations were divergent into two groups due to difference of cytoplasm background.
1992304	In infants the treatment of acute diarrhea with glucose-based solutions results in rehydration but does not reduce the severity of diarrhea. Oral rehydration with solutions based on rice powder may reduce stool output as well as restore fluid volume. We designed a prospective, randomized, double-blind study to evaluate the efficacy of two rice-based rehydration solutions and a conventional glucose-based solution. Solution A contained only rice-syrup solids, solution B contained rice-syrup solids and casein hydrolysate, and solution C, the glucose-based solution, served as control. The study subjects were 86 mildly to moderately dehydrated infant boys, 3 to 18 months old, who were admitted to a children's hospital with acute diarrhea. We measured fluid intake, fecal and urine output, and absorption and retention of fluid, sodium, and potassium at intervals for 48 hours in all 86 infants. The mean (+/- SE) fecal output was significantly lower in the infants given solution A (group A infants) than in the infants given solution C (group C) (29 +/- 4 vs. 46 +/- 7 ml per kilogram of body weight, P less than 0.05) during the first six hours of therapy. The infants in group A also had greater fluid absorption (221 +/- 16 vs. 167 +/- 9 ml per kilogram, P less than 0.05) over the entire 48 hours of therapy and greater potassium absorption (1.6 +/- 0.2 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.1 mmol per kilogram, P less than 0.05) during the first six hours than the infants in group C. Solution B offered no advantages over solution A. Solutions containing rice-syrup solids were effective in the rehydration of infants with acute diarrhea. They decreased stool output and promoted greater absorption and retention of fluid and electrolytes than did a glucose-based solution.
19923234	The cellular functions of Ku70 in repair of DNA double-stranded breaks and telomere regulation have been described in a wide range of organisms. In this study, we identified the rice (Oryza sativa) Ku70 homolog (OsKu70) from the rice genome database. OsKu70 transcript was detected constitutively in every tissue and developmental stage examined and also in undifferentiated callus cells in rice. Yeast two-hybrid and in vitro pull-down experiments revealed that OsKu70 physically interacts with OsKu80. We obtained loss-of-function osku70 T-DNA knockout mutant lines and constructed transgenic rice plants that overexpress the OsKu70 gene in the sense (35S:OsKu70) or antisense (35S:anti-OsKu70) orientation. The homozygous G2 osku70 mutant lines were more sensitive than wild-type plants to a DNA-damaging agent (0.01%-0.05% methyl-methane sulfonate), consistent with the notion that OsKu70 participates in the DNA repair mechanism. Terminal restriction fragment analysis revealed that telomeres in homozygous G2 osku70 mutants were markedly longer (10-20 kb) than those in wild-type plants (5-10 kb), whereas telomere length in heterozygous G2 osku70 mutant and T2 OsKu70-overexpressing transgenic (35S:OsKu70) rice resembled that of the wild-type plant. In contrast to what was observed in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) atku70 mutants, homozygous G2 osku70 rice plants displayed severe developmental defects in both vegetative and reproductive organs under normal growth conditions, resulting in sterile flowers. Analysis of meiotic progression in pollen mother cells demonstrated that up to 11.1% (seven of 63) of G2 mutant anaphase cells displayed one or more chromosomal fusions. These results suggest that OsKu70 is required for the maintenance of chromosome stability and normal developmental growth in rice plants.
19923385	In Bangladesh, rice prices are known to be positively associated with the prevalence of child underweight and inversely associated with household nongrain food expenditures, an indicator of dietary quality. The collection of reliable data on household expenditures is relatively time consuming and requires extensive training. Simple dietary diversity scores are increasingly used as measures of food security and as proxies for nutrient adequacy. This study examines associations between a simple dietary diversity score and commonly used indicators of socioeconomic status in Bangladesh. Data representative of rural Bangladesh was collected from 188,835 households over 18 rounds of bi-monthly data collection from 2003-2005. A simple household dietary diversity score was developed by summing the number of days each household consumed an item from each of 7 food groups over a 7-d period. The dietary diversity score was associated with per capita nongrain food expenditures (r = 0.415), total food expenditures (r = 0.327), and total household expenditures (r = 0.332) using Spearman correlations (all P < 0.0001). The frequency of meat and egg consumption showed greater variation across quintiles of total monthly expenditure than other items contributing to the dietary diversity score. After controlling for other measures of socioeconomic status in multiple linear regression models, the dietary diversity score was significantly associated with monthly per capita food and total expenditures. Low dietary diversity during the period prior to major food price increases indicates potential risk for worsening of micronutrient deficiencies and child malnutrition in Bangladesh.
19923912	Atg4 is a unique cysteine protease responsible for the cleavage of the carboxyl terminus of Atg8 during the formation of autophagosomes in yeast. Here we report that MoAtg4, an Atg4 homologue in Magnaporthe oryzae, controls cell differentiation and pathogenicity by interacting with MoAtg8, an autophagic protein essential for autophagic cell death and pathogenicity. Yeast complementation assay revealed that MoATG4 can functionally complement the defects of the yeast ATG4 deletion mutant. The direct interaction between MoAtg4 and MoAtg8 was detected in both yeast two hybrid and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) assays. We also specify a cysteine residue, Cys206, as the active residue within MoAtg4 for the cleavage of MoAtg8 in vitro. Expression pattern analysis revealed that MoATG4 gene is expressed throughout growth and development by M. oryzae and can be induced by starvation and MoAtg4 protein localized in the cytoplasm of M. oryzae. Deletion of MoATG4 in M. oryzae caused significant reduction of aerial hyphae, conidiation, perithecia formation and delay of conidial germination and appressorium formation. Furthermore, as a result of lower turgor pressure of the appressorium, the DeltaMoatg4 mutant lost its ability to penetrate rice and barley. The developmental and pathogenic phenotypes were recovered by reintroduction of an intact copy of MoATG4 into the mutant, suggesting that MoATG4 is indispensable in the development of M. oryzae and essential to pathogenicity of this fungus.
19924544	Complex II plays a central role in mitochondrial metabolism as a component of both the electron transport chain and the tricarboxylic acid cycle. However, the composition and function of the plant enzyme has been elusive and differs from the well-characterised enzymes in mammals and bacteria. Herewith, we demonstrate that mitochondrial Complex II from Arabidopsis and rice differ significantly in several aspects: (1) Stability-Rice complex II in contrast to Arabidopsis is not stable when resolved by native electrophoresis and activity staining. (2) Composition-Arabidopsis complex II contains 8 subunits, only 7 of which have homologs in the rice genome. SDH 1 and 2 subunits display high levels of amino acid identity between two species, while the remainder of the subunits are not well conserved at a sequence level, indicating significant divergence. (3) Gene expression-the pairs of orthologous SDH1 and SDH2 subunits were universally expressed in both Arabidopsis and rice. The very divergent genes for SDH3 and SDH4 were co-expressed in both species, consistent with their functional co-ordination to form the membrane anchor. The plant-specific SDH5, 6 and 7 subunits with unknown functions appeared to be differentially expressed in both species. (4) Biochemical regulation -succinate-dependent O(2) consumption and SDH activity of isolated Arabidopsis mitochondria were substantially stimulated by ATP, but a much more minor effect of ATP was observed for the rice enzyme. The ATP activation of succinate-dependent reduction of DCPIP in frozen-thawed and digitonin-solubilised mitochondrial samples, and with or without the uncoupler CCCP, indicate that the differential ATP effect on SDH is not via the protonmotive force but likely due to an allosteric effect on the plant SDH enzyme itself, in contrast to the enzyme in other organisms.
19924858	Njavara is a medicinal rice strain, endemic to Kerala, South India, bestowed with medicinal qualities. Genetic variations and some of the physicochemical properties were studied using standard molecular protocols and compared with those of nonmedicinal rice varieties: Jyothi and IR 64. Njavara showed 11 unique positive and 36 unique negative markers to differentiate it from Jyothi and IR 64. Genetic similarity coefficient studies showed two well-defined clusters separating Njavara from Jyothi and IR 64. All the three varieties had waxy gene Wx(a) allele. Njavara had (CT)(n) repeats at (CT)(10), while Jyothi and IR 64 had repeats at (CT)(11) in the 5'-untranslated region of waxy gene. Njavara showed a CGTG sequence, while Jyothi and IR 64 had a CGCG sequence at the 14th exon of Sbe 1 gene. Njavara, Jyothi, and IR 64 have similar amylose equivalent (AE), which was confirmed by microsatellite markers. The SSR primers for protein content and setback viscosity primer (RM 4608) were observed to be polymorphic in case of Njavara. Njavara rice, with a distinct gene pool and medicinal properties, can be exploited as a nutraceutical rice.
19924910
19924973	The concentration of arsenic (As) in rice grains has been identified as a risk to human health. The high proportion of inorganic species of As (As(i)) is of particular concern as it is a nonthreshold, class 1 human carcinogen. To be able to breed rice with low grain As, an understanding of genetic variation and the effect of different environments on genetic variation is needed. In this study, 13 cultivars grown at two field sites each in Bangladesh, India, and China are evaluated for grain As. There was a significant site, genotype, and site by genotype interaction for total grain As. Correlations were observed only between sites in Bangladesh and India, not between countries or within the Chinese sites. For seven cultivars the As was speciated which revealed significant effects of site, genotype, and site by genotype interaction for percentage As(i). Breeding low grain As cultivars that will have consistently low grain As and low As(i), over multiple environments using traditional breeding approaches may be difficult, although CT9993-5-10-1-M, Lemont, Azucena, and Te-qing in general had low grain As across the field sites.
19924980	A reconnaissance of 23 paddy fields, from three Bangladesh districts, encompassing a total of 230 soil and rice plant samples was conducted to identify the extent to which trace element characteristics in soils and irrigation waters are reflected by the harvested rice crop. Field sites were located on two soil physiographic units with distinctly different As soil baseline and groundwater concentrations. For arsenic (As), both straw and grain trends closely fitted patterns observed for the soils and water. Grain concentration characteristics for selenium (Se), zinc (Zn), and nickel (Ni), however, were markedly different. Regressions of shoot and grain As against grain Se, Zn, and Ni were highly significant (P < 0.001), exhibiting a pronounced decline in grain trace-nutrient quality with increasing As content. To validate this further, a pot experiment cultivar screening trial, involving commonly cultivated high yielding variety (HYV) rice grown alongside two U.S. rice varieties characterized as being As tolerant and susceptible, was conducted on an As-amended uniform soil. Findings from the trial confirmed that As perturbed grain metal(loid) balances, resulting in severe yield reductions in addition to constraining the levels of Se, Zn, and Ni in the grain.
19926115	Annual paddy rice-winter wheat rotation constitutes one of the typical cropping systems in southeast China, in which various water regimes are currently practiced during the rice-growing season, including continuous flooding (F), flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding (F-D-F), and flooding-midseason drainage-reflooding and moisture but without waterlogging (F-D-F-M). We conducted a field experiment in a rice-winter wheat rotation system to gain an insight into the water regime-specific emission factors and background emissions of nitrous oxide (N(2)O) over the whole annual cycle. While flooding led to an unpronounced N(2)O emission during the rice-growing season, it incurred substantial N(2)O emission during the following non-rice season. During the non-rice season, N(2)O fluxes were, on average, 2.61 and 2.48 mg N(2)O-Nm(-)(2) day(-1) for the 250 kg N ha(-1) applied plots preceded by the F and F-D-F water regimes, which are 56% and 49% higher than those by the F-D-F-M water regime, respectively. For the annual rotation system experienced by continuous flooding during the rice-growing season, the relationship between N(2)O emission and nitrogen input predicted the emission factor and background emission of N(2)O to be 0.87% and 1.77 kg N(2)O-Nha(-1), respectively. For the plots experienced by the water regimes of F-D-F and F-D-F-M, the emission factors of N(2)O averaged 0.97% and 0.85%, with background N(2)O emissions of 2.00 kg N(2)O-Nha(-1) and 1.61 kg N(2)O-Nha(-1) for the annual rotation system, respectively. Annual direct N(2)O-N emission was estimated to be 98.1 Gg yr(-1) in Chinese rice-based cropping systems in the 1990s, consisting of 32.3 Gg during the rice-growing season and 65.8 Gg during the non-rice season, which accounts for 25-35% of the annual total emission from croplands in China.
19926476	This study aim is to propose operational conditions for the dilute acid pretreatment of rice straw and to explore the effect of the structural properties of the solid residues on the enzymatic hydrolysis. A maximal sugar yield of 83% was achieved when the rice straw was pretreated with 1% (w/w) sulfuric acid with a reaction time of 1-5 min at 160 degrees C or 180 degrees C, followed by enzymatic hydrolysis. The completely release of sugar (xylose and glucose) increased the pore volume of the pretreated solid residues resulted in an efficiency of 70% for the enzymatic hydrolysis. The extra pore volume was generated by the release of acid-soluble lignin and this resulted in the enzymatic hydrolysis being enhanced by nearly 10%. The increase in the crystallinity index of the pretreated rice straw was limited. These results were consistent with those from the Fourier transformer infrared (FTIR) analysis.
19926801	In an approach to study lateral root development in monocots, genome-wide searches for homologs of the Gibberellic Acid Stimulated Transcript-like (GAST-like) gene family in rice (Oryza sativa) and maize (Zea mays) were carried out. Six novel GAST-like genes in rice and 10 members of the gene family in maize, which were designated ZmGSL (for Z. mays Gibberellic Acid Stimulated-Like), were identified. The ZmGSL family encodes small proteins of 75 to 128 amino acids, which are characterized by a conserved 59 to 64 amino acid C-terminal domain. Within this domain, 17 amino acids, including 12 cysteines, are perfectly conserved. The transcript of the ZmGSL1 gene is differentially spliced into the alternative variants ZmGSL1a and ZmGSL1b, the latter of which is translated into a premature protein that lacks the C-terminal domain. The presence of an additional N-terminal cleavable signal sequence in eight of the 10 ZmGSL proteins suggests that they are secreted into the extracellular matrix. In-depth root-specific gene expression analyses carried out in the wild type and the lateral root mutants lrt1 and rum1 suggest a role for ZmGSL genes in early lateral root development, which is likely regulated by gibberellic acid. Expression patterns of ZmGSL1a and ZmGSL1b propose antagonistic functions of these splice variants during early lateral root formation.
19926802	Grass species represent a major source of food, feed, and fiber crops and potential feedstocks for biofuel production. Most of the biomass is contributed by cell walls that are distinct in composition from all other flowering plants. Identifying cell wall-related genes and their functions underpins a fundamental understanding of growth and development in these species. Toward this goal, we are building a knowledge base of the maize (Zea mays) genes involved in cell wall biology, their expression profiles, and the phenotypic consequences of mutation. Over 750 maize genes were annotated and assembled into gene families predicted to function in cell wall biogenesis. Comparative genomics of maize, rice (Oryza sativa), and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) sequences reveal differences in gene family structure between grass species and a reference eudicot species. Analysis of transcript profile data for cell wall genes in developing maize ovaries revealed that expression within families differed by up to 100-fold. When transcriptional analyses of developing ovaries before pollination from Arabidopsis, rice, and maize were contrasted, distinct sets of cell wall genes were expressed in grasses. These differences in gene family structure and expression between Arabidopsis and the grasses underscore the requirement for a grass-specific genetic model for functional analyses. A UniformMu population proved to be an important resource in both forward- and reverse-genetics approaches to identify hundreds of mutants in cell wall genes. A forward screen of field-grown lines by near-infrared spectroscopic screen of mature leaves yielded several dozen lines with heritable spectroscopic phenotypes. Pyrolysis-molecular beam mass spectrometry confirmed that several nir mutants had altered carbohydrate-lignin compositions.
19927827	Phosphine, a trace gas, has been proved to commonly exist in environment. Under free air carbon dioxide enrichment (FACE) condition, the phosphine fluxes were investigated on the function of different nitrogen fertilizer application, NN (normal N, 250 kg/hm2) and LN (low N, 125 kg/hm2). Results showed that phosphine fluxes and concentrations in flourishing stages, both tillering stage and elongation stage, were higher than in slowly growing stages. The highest phosphine flux of (155.2 +/- 22.71) ng/(m2 x h) was observed in tillering stage in NN zone of the FACE area. The highest average phosphine flux of (41.72 +/- 7.006) ng/(m2 x h) was observed in NN zone of FACE area, while the lowest average phosphine flux of (- 1.485 +/- 6.229) ng/(m2 x h) could be detected in LN zone of the ambient area. CO2 enrichment can obviously improve the phospine emission. The nitrogen fertilizing level doesn't play an important role in phosphine emission. Both net fluxes and concentrations of phosphine had obviously positive correlation with temperature. A one-day phosphine flux and concentration experiment was carried out in ripening stage. The result showed that light was the prominent factor influencing phosphine concentration in daytime.
19927842	In this study, a total of 70 polished rice samples were randomly collected at agro-product markets from some typical regions of South China. Their contents of Cd, Zn and Se were determined by atomic adsorption spectrophotometers (AAS) and atomic fluorescence spectrometry (AES) respectively. The variation of the contents with rice areas was described in terms of soil conditions and the potential health risk by food exposure to these rice rains for subsistence-diet fanners is discussed. Over 70% of the total samples have Cd contents exceeding the State Food Security Standards (0.2 mg x kg(-1)) with Cd/Zn ratios exceeding the suggested critical threshold of 0.015. Widest variation was found for Cd and smallest for Zn, showing rice Cd prone to environmental stress. The extent to which the contents of the analyzed elements varied with rice areas was rater for Cd and Se than for Zn, though the contents followed in the same order: polluted area > acid paddy area and neutral paddy area. This further evidenced a determinacy of chemical availability in rice Cd uptake. Taking the reference dose values by WHO and USEPA, the health risk by Cd exposure to the rice diet from different areas was estimated. The consumption of rice from polluted area and acid paddy area may impose serious health risks for subsistence diet farmers though those from neutral paddy area may be still safe under the WHO guideline. It is demanded that the problem of the rice rains high in Cd and low in Zn and Se, and serious potential risk should be taken into account while developing high-yielding rice in acid and polluted rice ares of South China. Technology for depressing Cd uptake and low-Cd cultivar breeding should he pursued in rice production sector in the future.
19928790	We report isomer-selective kinetics and mechanistic details for the hydroxyl radical-initiated oxidation of isoprene, in the presence of O(2) and NO, employing complementary experimental and theoretical techniques. Using a recently demonstrated photolytic route to initiate isomer-selective kinetics in OH-initiated oxidation of unsaturated hydrocarbons via the UV photolysis of iodohydrins, the photolysis of 1-iodo-2-methyl-3-buten-2-ol results in a single isomer of the possible four OH-isoprene adducts, specifically the minor channel associated with OH addition to one of the inner carbon atoms. Employing both the laser-photolysis/laser-induced fluorescence (LP/LIF) technique and time-dependent multiplexed photoionization mass spectrometry, we find clear experimental evidence supporting the prompt rearrangement of the initially formed beta-hydroxyalkyl radicals to alpha-hydroxyalkyl radicals, in agreement with Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM)/master equation predictions. We have determined a rate constant of (3.3 +/- 0.5) x 10(-11) cm(3) molecule(-1) s(-1) for molecular oxygen to abstract a hydrogen atom from the alpha-hydroxyalkyl radical to form 4-penten-2-one and HO(2). This reaction provides a mechanistic route to C(5) carbonyl species as first-generation end products for the addition of hydroxyl radical to isoprene in the presence of O(2) and NO.
19929899	In an earlier study, we found that rice (Oryza sativa) grown in nutrient solution well-supplied with Zn preferentially took up light (64)Zn over (66)Zn, probably as a result of kinetic fractionation in membrane transport processes. Here, we measure isotope fractionation by rice in a submerged Zn-deficient soil with and without Zn fertilizer. We grew the same genotype as in the nutrient solution study plus low-Zn tolerant and intolerant lines from a recombinant inbred population. In contrast to the nutrient solution, in soil with Zn fertilizer we found little or heavy isotopic enrichment in the plants relative to plant-available Zn in the soil, and in soil without Zn fertilizer we found consistently heavy enrichment, particularly in the low-Zn tolerant line. These observations are only explicable by complexation of Zn by a complexing agent released from the roots and uptake of the complexed Zn by specific root transporters. We show with a mathematical model that, for realistic rates of secretion of the phytosiderophore deoxymugineic acid (DMA) by rice, and realistic parameters for the Zn-solubilizing effect of DMA in soil, solubilization and uptake by this mechanism is necessary and sufficient to account for the measured Zn uptake and the differences between genotypes.
19930130	Although an apoplastic pathway (the so-called bypass flow) is implicated in the uptake of Na(+) by rice growing in saline conditions, the point of entry of this flow into roots remains to be elucidated. We investigated the role of lateral roots in bypass flow using the tracer trisodium-8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonic acid (PTS) and the rice cv. IR36. PTS was identified in the vascular tissue of lateral roots using both epifluorescence microscopy and confocal laser scanning microscopy. Cryo-scanning electron microscopy and epifluorescence microscopy of sections stained with berberine-aniline blue revealed that the exodermis is absent in the lateral roots. We conclude that PTS can move freely through the cortical layers of lateral roots, enter the stele and be transported to the shoot via the transpiration stream.
19930131	An apoplastic pathway, the so-called bypass flow, is important for Na+ uptake in rice (Oryza sativa L.) under saline conditions; however, the precise site of entry is not yet known. We report the results of our test of the hypothesis that bypass flow of Na+ in rice occurs at the site where lateral roots emerge from the main roots. We investigated Na+ uptake and bypass flow in lateral rootless mutants (lrt1, lrt2), a crown rootless mutant (crl1), their wild types (Oochikara, Nipponbare and Taichung 65, respectively) and in seedlings of rice cv. IR36. The results showed that shoot Na+ concentration in lrt1, lrt2 and crl1 was lower (by 20-23%) than that of their wild types. In contrast, the bypass flow quantified using trisodium-8-hydroxy-1,3,6-pyrenetrisulphonic acid (PTS) was significantly increased in the mutants, from an average of 1.1% in the wild types to 3.2% in the mutants. Similarly, bypass flow in shoots of IR36 where the number of lateral and crown roots had been reduced through physical and hormonal manipulations was dramatically increased (from 5.6 to 12.5%) as compared to the controls. The results suggest that the path of bypass flow in rice is not at the sites of lateral root emergence.
19930558	Members of major intrinsic proteins (MIPs) include water-conducting aquaporins and glycerol-transporting aquaglyceroporins. MIPs play important role in plant-water relations. The model plants Arabidopsis thaliana, rice and maize contain more than 30 MIPs and based on phylogenetic analysis they can be divided into at least four subfamilies. Populus trichocarpa is a model tree species and provides an opportunity to investigate several tree-specific traits. In this study, we have investigated Populus MIPs (PtMIPs) and compared them with their counterparts in Arabidopsis, rice and maize. Fifty five full-length MIPs have been identified in Populus genome. Phylogenetic analysis reveals that Populus has a fifth uncharacterized subfamily (XIPs). Three-dimensional models of all 55 PtMIPs were constructed using homology modeling technique. Aromatic/arginine (ar/R) selectivity filters, characteristics of loops responsible for solute selectivity (loop C) and gating (loop D) and group conservation of small and weakly polar interfacial residues have been analyzed. Majority of the non-XIP PtMIPs are similar to those in Arabidopsis, rice and maize. Additional XIPs were identified from database search and 35 XIP sequences from dicots, fungi, moss and protozoa were analyzed. Ar/R selectivity filters of dicots XIPs are more hydrophobic compared to fungi and moss XIPs and hence they are likely to transport hydrophobic solutes. Loop C is longer in one of the subgroups of dicot XIPs and most probably has a significant role in solute selectivity. Loop D in dicot XIPs has higher number of basic residues. Intron loss is observed on two occasions: once between two subfamilies of eudicots and monocot and in the second instance, when dicot and moss XIPs diverged from fungi. Expression analysis of Populus MIPs indicates that Populus XIPs don't show any tissue-specific transcript abundance. Due to whole genome duplication, Populus has the largest number of MIPs identified in any single species. Non-XIP MIPs are similar in all four plant species considered in this study. Small and weakly polar residues at the helix-helix interface are group conserved presumably to maintain the hourglass fold of MIP channels. Substitutions in ar/R selectivity filter, insertion/deletion in loop C, increasing basic nature of loop D and loss of introns are some of the events occurred during the evolution of dicot XIPs.
19930585	Compactness of highly/broadly expressed genes in human has been explained as selection for efficiency, regional mutation biases or genomic design. However, highly expressed genes in flowering plants were shown to be less compact than lowly expressed ones. On the other hand, opposite facts have also been documented that pollen-expressed Arabidopsis genes tend to contain shorter introns and highly expressed moss genes are compact. This issue is important because it provides a chance to compare the selectionism and the neutralism views about genome evolution. Furthermore, this issue also helps to understand the fates of introns, from the angle of gene expression. In this study, I used expression data covering more tissues and employ new analytical methods to reexamine the correlations between gene expression and gene structure for two flowering plants, Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa. It is shown that, different aspects of expression pattern correlate with different parts of gene sequences in distinct ways. In detail, expression level is significantly negatively correlated with gene size, especially the size of non-coding regions, whereas expression breadth correlates with non-coding structural parameters positively and with coding region parameters negatively. Furthermore, the relationships between expression level and structural parameters seem to be non-linear, with the extremes of structural parameters possibly scale as power-laws or logrithmic functions of expression levels. In plants, highly expressed genes are compact, especially in the non-coding regions. Broadly expressed genes tend to contain longer non-coding sequences, which may be necessary for complex regulations. In combination with previous studies about other plants and about animals, some common scenarios about the correlation between gene expression and gene structure begin to emerge. Based on the functional relationships between extreme values of structural characteristics and expression level, an effort was made to evaluate the relative effectiveness of the energy-cost hypothesis and the time-cost hypothesis.
19930763	Consumption of resistant starch (RS)-enriched foods is associated with decrease in the postprandial glycaemic and insulinaemic responses, accompanied by the production of fermentation-related gases in the large bowel. The present study aimed to determine the postprandial glycaemic and insulinaemic responses to the GM RS-enriched rice and the fermentation-related production of H2 in young and healthy Chinese adults. A total of sixteen young adults (nine men and seven women) were recruited and divided into three groups. Their postprandial glycaemic and insulinaemic responses to 40 g glucose, carbohydrates of RS or wild-type (WT) rice were tested by a crossover model with a washout period of 7 d. The concentrations of blood glucose and insulin as well as breath H2 were measured before and after food intake. Although the mean concentrations of fasting blood glucose, insulin and breath H2 were similar, consumption of the RS rice significantly decreased the values of glycaemic index (GI) and insulin index (II), as compared with the intake of WT rice (48.4 (sem 21.8) v. 77.4 (sem 34.9) for GI, 34.2 (sem 18.9) v. 54.4 (sem 22.4) for II, P < 0.05), respectively. Conversely, intake of the RS rice meal significantly elevated the concentrations of breath H2, as compared with WT rice (38.9 (sem 17.6) v. 10.5 (sem 3.7) parts per million for peak levels of breath H2, P < 0.05) through a period of 16-h tests. Consumption of the GM RS-enriched rice meal decreased the postprandial glycaemic and insulinaemic responses and promoted RS fermentation-related production of H2 in the large bowel of young and healthy Chinese adults.
19932463	Comparative analyses of genome structure and sequence of closely related species have yielded insights into the evolution and function of plant genomes. A total of 103,844 BAC end sequences delegated approximately 73.8 Mb of O. officinalis that belongs to the CC genome type of the rice genus Oryza were obtained and compared with the genome sequences of rice cultivar, O. sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare. We found that more than 45% of O. officinalis genome consists of repeat sequences, which is higher than that of Nipponbare cultivar. To further investigate the evolutionary divergence of AA and CC genomes, two BAC-contigs of O. officinalis were compared with the collinear genomic regions of Nipponbare. Of 57 genes predicted in the AA genome orthologous regions, 39 had orthologs in the regions of the CC genome. Alignment of the orthologous regions indicated that the CC genome has undergone expansion in both genic and intergenic regions through primarily retroelement insertion. Particularly, the density of RNA transposable elements was 17.95% and 1.78% in O. officinalis and O. sativa, respectively. This explains why the orthologous region is about 100 kb longer in the CC genome in comparison to the AA genome.
19932464	A novel zebra mutant, zebra-15, derived from the restorer line Jinhui10 (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) treated by EMS, displayed a distinctive zebra leaf from seedling stage to jointing stage. Its chlorophyll content decreased (55.4%) and the ratio of Chla/Chlb increased (90.2%) significantly in the yellow part of the zebra-15, compared with the wild type. Net photosynthetic rate and fluorescence kinetic parameters showed that the decrease of chlorophyll content significantly influenced the photosynthetic efficiency of the mutant. Genetic analysis of F(2) segregation populations derived from the cross of Xinong1A and zebra-15 indicated that the zebra leaf trait is controlled by a single recessive nuclear gene. Ninety-eight out of four hundred and eighty pairs of SSR markers showed the diversity between the Xinong1A and the zebra-15, their F(2) population was then used for gene mapping. Zebra-15 (Z-15) gene was primarily restricted on the short arm of chromosome 5 by 150 F(2) recessive individuals, 19.6 cM from marker RM3322 and 6.0 cM from marker RM6082. Thirty-six SSR markers were newly designed in the restricted location, and the Z-15 was finally located between markers nSSR516 and nSSR502 with the physical region 258 kb by using 1,054 F(2) recessive individuals.
19933095	A population of F8 recombinant inbred lines (RILs), derived from a cross between IR26 (Oryza sativa L. spp. indica) and Jiucaiqing (japonica), were used to identify the quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for Cd2+ content in brown rice under 5 mg/kg Cd2+ stress. Two QTLs, qCCBR-11a and qCCBR-11b, associated with the Cd2+ content in brown rice, were detected on chromosome 11. qCCBR-11a was located at the position between markers RM6288 and RM6544, accounting for 11.17% of the phenotypic variance with an additive effect value of 0.089. qCCBR-11b at the interval between markers RM167 and RM5704 explained 7.66% of the phenotypic variance with an additive effect value of 0.075. In addition, the correlation coefficients between Cd2+ content of brown rice and plant height, spikelets per panicle, filled grains per panicle, seed setting rate, and 1 000-grain weight were not significant. This suggested that the Cd2+ content in brown rice under Cd2+ stress was an independent genetic trait.
19933097	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are an extensive class of tiny RNA molecules that regulate the expression of target genes by means of complementary base pair interactions. Identification of miRNAs and their target genes is essential to understand the regulation network of miRNAs in gene expression. With the method of bioinformatic computation, we used previously deposited miRNA sequences from Arabidopsis, rice, and other plant species to blast the databases of maize expressed sequence tags and genomic survey sequence that do not correspond to protein coding genes. A total of 11 novel miRNAs were identified from maize following a range of filtering criteria. All the potential miRNA precursors can be folded into the typical secondary structure of miRNA family, despite of variation in length and structure. Using these miRNAs sequences, we further blasted the databases of maize mRNAs and identified 26 target genes for seven of the eleven newly identified miRNAs. These genes encode twenty-six proteins involved in metabolism, signal transduction, transcriptional regulation, transmembrane transport, biostress, and abiostress responses, as well as chloroplast assembly. The identification of these novel miRNAs is a useful complement to the maize miRNA database.
19933159	We have established a database named LegumeTFDB to provide access to transcription factor (TF) repertoires of three major legume species: soybean (Glycine max), Lotus japonicus and Medicago truncatula. LegumeTFDB integrates unique information for each TF gene and family, including sequence features, gene promoters, domain alignments, gene ontology (GO) assignment and sequence comparison data derived from comparative analysis with TFs found within legumes, in Arabidopsis, rice and poplar as well as with proteins in NCBI nr and UniProt. We also analyzed the promoter regions for all of the TFs to identify all types of cis-motifs provided by the PLACE database. Additionally, we supply hyperlinks to make available expression data of 2411 soybean TF genes. LegumeTFDB provides an important user-friendly public resource for comparative genomics and understanding of transcriptional regulation in agriculturally important legumes. http://legumetfdb.psc.riken.jp/. Supplementary data available at Bioinformatics online.
19933228	Burkholderia kururiensis, strain M130, an endophytic diazotrophic bacterium isolated from rice roots, produces acetylated acidic exopolysaccharides which can be separated by anion exchange chromatography. These were characterized by nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy, methylation analysis and Smith degradation. The exopolysaccharides eluted with 0.5 M NaCl were produced when the bacterium was grown in a medium containing mannitol as the sole carbon source, and showed to be a mixture of two different polymers, composed of hepta or octasaccharide repeat units, consistent with following structure: [structure: see text]. The ability of diazotrophic Burkholderia to produce two exopolysaccharides that differ by the presence of a terminal glucosyl residue provides insight into polysaccharide function with potentially significant biological consequences in the endophytic-host plant interaction.
19933265	To identify the function of genes that regulate the processing of proglutelin, we performed an analysis of glup3 mutants, which accumulates excess amounts of proglutelin and lack the vacuolar processing enzyme (VPE). VPE activity in developing seeds from glup3 lines was reduced remarkably compared with the wild type. DNA sequencing of the VPE gene in glup3 mutants revealed either amino acid substitutions or the appearance of a stop codon within the coding region. Microscopic observations showed that alpha-globulin and proglutelin were distributed homogeneously within glup3 protein storage vacuoles (PSVs), and that glup3 PSVs lacked the crystalline lattice structure typical of wild-type PSVs. This suggests that the processing of proglutelin by VPE in rice is essential for proper PSV structure and compartmentalization of storage proteins. Growth retardation in glup3 seedlings was also observed, indicating that the processing of proglutelin influences early seedling development. These findings indicate that storage of glutelin in its mature form as a crystalline structure in PSVs is required for the rapid use of glutelin as a source of amino acids during early seedling development. In conclusion, VPE plays an important role in the formation of protein crystalline structures in PSVs.
19933266	An endogenous double-stranded RNA (dsRNA), which has recently been recognized as the dsRNA virus Oryza sativa endornavirus (OsEV), is found in many strains of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa). Small RNAs derived from OsEV dsRNA were detected, indicating that the RNA silencing machinery recognizes OsEV dsRNA. The existence of OsEV in knock-down (KD) lines of five genes of RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (OsRDR1-OsRDR5) or two genes of Dicer-like protein (OsDCL2 or OsDCL3a) was examined to characterize the relationship between the host RNA silencing system and the propagation of this dsRNA virus. OsEV was not detected in OsRDR4-KD or OsDCL2-KD T(1) lines. We attempted to introduce OsEV into these KD lines by crossing them with OsEV-carrying plants because of the efficient transmission of OsEV to F(1) plants via pollen or ova. All OsRDR4-KD but only some OsDCL2-KD F(1) plants contained OsEV. Some OsDCL2-KD F(1) plants consisted of OsEV-carrying and OsEV-free cells. These results suggest that the maintenance of OsEV is unstable in OsDCL2-KD plants. Furthermore, the amount of OsEV-derived small interfering RNA (vsiRNA) in the OsDCL2-KD plants increased relative to the wild type. This increased level of vsiRNA may cause OsEV instability during cell division.
19933267	In rice panicle development, new meristems are generated sequentially in an organized manner and acquire their identity in a time- and position-dependent manner. In the panicle of the panicle phytomer2-1 (pap2-1) mutant, the pattern of meristem initiation is disorganized and newly formed meristems show reduced competency to become spikelet meristems, resulting in the transformation of early arising spikelets into rachis branches. In addition, rudimentary glumes and sterile lemmas, the outermost organs of the spikelet, elongate into a leafy morphology. We propose that PAP2 is a positive regulator of spikelet meristem identity. Map-based cloning revealed that PAP2 encodes OsMADS34, a member of the SEPALLATA (SEP) subfamily of MADS-box proteins. PAP2/OsMADS34 belongs to the LOFSEP subgroup of MADS-box genes that show grass-specific diversification caused by gene duplication events. All five SEP subfamily genes in rice are expressed exclusively during panicle development, while their spatial and temporal expression patterns vary. PAP2 expression starts the earliest among the five SEP genes, and a low but significant level of PAP2 mRNA was detected in the inflorescence meristem, in branch meristems immediately after the transition, and in glume primordia, consistent with its role in the early development of spikelet formation. Our study provides new evidence supporting the hypothesis that the genes of the LOFSEP subgroup control developmental processes that are unique to grass species.
19933315	During rice (Oryza sativa L.) seed development, the primary endosperm nucleus undergoes a series of divisions without cytokinesis, producing a multinucleate cell, known as a syncytium. After several rounds of rapid nuclear proliferation, the syncytium ceases to undergo mitosis; thereafter, the syncytium is partitioned into individual cells by a specific type of cytokinesis called cellularization. The transition between syncytium and cellularization is important in determining the final seed size and is a model for studying the cell cycle and cytokinesis. The involvement of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) inhibitors (CKIs) in cell cycle control was investigated here during the transition between syncytium and cellularization. It was found that one of the rice CKIs, Orysa;KRP3, is strongly expressed in the caryopsis at 2 d after flowering (DAF), and its expression is significantly reduced at 3 DAF. The other CKI transcripts did not show such a shift at 2 DAF. In situ hybridization analysis revealed that Orysa;KRP3 is expressed in multinucleate syncytial endosperm at 2 DAF, but not in cellularized endosperm at 3 DAF. Two-hybrid assays showed that Orysa;KRP3 binds Orysa;CDKA;1, Orysa;CDKA;2, Orysa;CycA1;1, and Orysa;CycD2;2. By contrast, Orysa;CDKB2;1 and Orysa;CycB2;2 do not show binding to Orysa;KRP3. Orysa;KRP3 was able to rescue yeast premature cell division due to the dominant positive expression of mutant rice CDKA;1 indicating that Orysa;KRP3 inhibited rice CDK. These data suggest that Orysa;KRP3 is involved in cell cycle control of syncytial endosperm.
19933874	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) inflorescence (panicle) architecture is an important agronomic trait for rice breeding. A number of high-yielding japonica rice strains, characterized by an erect panicle (EP) of their architecture, have been released as commercial varieties in China. But no EP-type indica varieties are released so far. Here, we identified two allelic erect-panicle mutants in indica rice, erect panicle2-1 (ep2-1) and erect panicle2-2 (ep2-2), exhibiting the characteristic erect panicle phenotype. Both mutants were derived from spontaneous mutation. We cloned the EP2 gene by way of a map-based cloning strategy, and a transgenic complementation test rescued the phenotype of ep2-1. Anatomical investigations revealed that the ep2 mutants have more vascular bundles and a thicker stem than that of wild-type plants, explaining the panicle erectness phenotype in ep2 mutants. It was shown that EP2 was specifically expressed in the vascular bundles of internodes by GUS staining and RT-PCR. EP2 encodes a novel plant-specific protein, which localizes to the endoplasmic reticulum with unknown biochemical function. In addition, EP2 also regulates other panicle characteristics, such as panicle length and grain size, but grain number per panicle shows little change, indicating that the mutation of the ep2 gene could be applied in EP-type indica rice breeding.
19933877	Characterizing the genetic and molecular basis of hybrid incompatibilities is a first step toward understanding their evolutionary origins. We fine mapped the nuclear restorer (Rf) of cytoplasm-dependent anther sterility in Mimulus hybrids by identifying and targeting regions of the Mimulus guttatus genome containing large numbers of candidate pentatricopeptide repeat genes (PPRs). The single Mendelian locus Rf was first isolated to a 1.3-cM region on linkage group 7 that spans the genome's largest cluster of PPRs, then split into two tightly linked loci (Rf1 and Rf2) by <10 recombination events in a large (N = 6153) fine-mapping population. Progeny testing of fertile recombinants demonstrated that a dominant M. guttatus allele at each Rf locus was sufficient to restore fertility. Each Rf locus spans a physical region containing numerous PPRs with high homology to each other, suggesting recent tandem duplication or transposition. Furthermore, these PPRs have higher homology to restorers in distantly related taxa (petunia and rice) than to PPRs elsewhere in the Mimulus genome. These results suggest that the cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS)-PPR interaction is highly conserved across flowering plants. In addition, given our theoretical understanding of cytonuclear coevolution, the finding that hybrid CMS results from interactions between a chimeric mitochondrial transcript that is modified by Rf loci identified as PPRs is consistent with a history of selfish mitochondrial evolution and compensatory nuclear coevolution within M. guttatus.
19934228	Thiamine deficiency leads to various manifestations due to dysfunction of nervous or cardiovascular system, commonly known as dry and wet beriberi, respectively. The latter, also known as cardiac beriberi is usually missed in clinical practice because of the absence of classically described symptoms such as pedal edema/anasarca. We investigated 55 such infants and prospectively followed their clinical course. All the babies were exclusively breast-fed and their mothers belonged to low socio-economic status with their staple diet consisting of non-parboiled polished rice. Majority presented with tachypnea, chest indrawing and tachycardia and cardiomegaly with dilatation of right heart and pulmonary hypertension on 2D-echocardiography. Low levels of erythrocyte transketolase activity suggested thiamine deficiency that was confirmed by reversion of several clinical features including cardiologic abnormalities to normalcy on thiamine supplementation. We recommend thiamine therapy for infants with unexplained congestive cardiac failure or acute respiratory failure from precarious socio-economic background since it is life-saving in many instances.
19934339	The flavone 4',5,7-trihydroxy-3',5'-dimethoxyflavone (tricin) present in rice, oats, barley, and wheat exhibits antigrowth activity in several human cancer cell lines and anti-inflammatory potential. However, the chemopreventive activity has not yet been elucidated in preclinical animal models of colorectal cancer. This study was designed to determine whether dietary tricin exerts inflammation-associated colon carcinogenesis induced by azoxymethane and dextran sulfate sodium in mice. Male Crj: CD-1 mice were initiated with a single i.p. injection of azoxymethane (10 mg/kg body weight) and followed by a 1-week exposure to dextran sulfate sodium (1.5%, w/v) in drinking water to induce colonic neoplasms. They were then given the experimental diet containing 50 or 250 ppm tricin. The experiment was terminated at week 18 to determine the chemopreventive efficacy of tricin. In addition, the effects of dietary tricin on the expression of several inflammatory cytokines, including tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, were assayed. The development of colonic adenomas and adenocarcinomas was significantly reduced by feeding with 50 and 250 ppm tricin, respectively. Dietary tricin also significantly reduced the proliferation of adenocarcinoma cells as well as the numbers of mitoses/anaphase bridging in adenocarcinoma cells. The dietary administration with tricin significantly inhibited the expression of TNF-alpha in the nonlesional cypts. Our findings that dietary tricin inhibits inflammation-related mouse colon carcinogenesis by suppressing the expression of TNF-alpha in the nonlesional cyrpts and the proliferation of adenocarcinomas suggest a potential use of tricin for clinical trials of colorectal cancer chemoprevention.
19934512	The state of Punjab comprising 1.5% area of the country has been contributing 40-50% rice and 60-65% wheat to the central pool since last three decades. During last 35 years The area under foodgrains has increased from 39,200 sq km ha to 63,400 sq km and the production of rice and wheat has increased from 0.18 to 0.32 kg/m2 and 0.22 to 0.43 kg/m2 respectively. This change in cropping pattern has increased irrigation water requirement tremendously and the irrigated area has increased from 71 to 95% in the state. Also the number of tube wells has increased from 0.192 to 1.165 million in the last 35 years. The excessive indiscriminate exploitation of ground water has created a declining water table situation in the state. The problem is most critical in central Punjab. The average rate of decline over the last few years has been 55 cm per year. The worst affected districts are Moga, Sangrur, Nawanshahar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. This has resulted in extra power consumption, affects the socio-economic conditions of the small farmers, destroy the ecological balance and adversely affect the sustainable agricultural production and economy of the state. Therefore, in this paper attempt has been made to analyse the problem of declining water table, possible factors responsible for this and suggest suitable strategies for arresting declining water table for sustainable agriculture in Punjab. The strategies include shift of cropping pattern, delay in paddy transplantation, precision irrigation and rainwater harvesting for artificial groundwater recharge.
1993479	The gene structure of oryzacystatin-II, a new cystatin superfamily member of rice seed origin, was determined. It spans approximately 2.5 kbp and comprises 3 exons. The number of exons and the intron-breakpoints coincide with those of oryzacystatin-I, the first well-defined plant cystatin. However, no similar sequences were observed between the two oryzacystatin genes in 5'-upstream regulatory regions, even though both are expressed specifically during the ripening stage of rice seeds. The gene organization of these two plant cystatins is generally different from that of animal cystatins.
19935102	The dipeptide carnosine has been shown to contribute to the buffer capacity of hydrogen ions (H) during intense exercise. Increasing skeletal muscle carnosine levels through beta-alanine (BA) supplementation has been shown to maintain acid-base balance, delay fatigue, and improve exercise performance. We designed this study to examine the effect of 5 weeks of BA supplementation on repeat high-intensity sprint performance. Nineteen, physically active, college men were divided into 2 groups (control [C], n = 10 or BA, n = 9). We performed double-blind placebo-controlled study where subjects ingested 4 g per day during the first week and 6 g per day over the next 4 weeks of a placebo (rice flour) or a BA supplement. Subjects completed 2 sets of 5 5-second sprints with 45-second recovery separated by 2 minutes of active recovery. All tests were conducted on a non-motorized treadmill against a resistance of 15% of the participant's body weight. We recorded horizontal power (HP) of the running sprint. Post-exercise capillary blood samples were analyzed for lactate to determine the metabolic demands. There were no significant between-group differences (p > 0.05) in HPpeak or HPmean for the repeat sprint protocol. No significant between-group differences were found for performance decrement (% fatigue) for HPpeak or HPmean. In addition, no significant interactions were observed. Post-exercise blood lactate values were similar pre and post supplementation in both groups. The results of this study clearly indicate that 5 weeks of BA supplementation provides no benefit for repeat sprint performance.
19935894	Competition assays with Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 and its GFP-labelled pSymA cured and deleted derivatives, SmA818 and SmA146, demonstrated that Sm1021 could still inhibit rice seedling growth even when outnumbered by a large excess of the noninhibitory cured or deleted strain. The wild-type strain Sm1021 also inhibited the growth of its noninhibitory pSymA-cured strain SmA818(gfp) and its pSymA-deleted strain SmA146(gfp) in a manner suggesting that Sm1021 produced a bacteriocin-like substance. The production of, and resistance to, this substance seemed to be pSymA-associated, but it was not the cause of killing in competition experiments on rice, suggesting that the killing of SmA818(gfp) and SmA146(gfp) was medium dependent. The addition of agar in liquid F10 medium at concentrations < or = 0.4% (m/v) abolished the rice growth inhibition of strain Sm1021 and Sm1021(gfp). The increased medium viscosity at higher agar concentrations decreased the diffusion of gases and small molecules through the media. Thus, the low agar concentrations may mimic waterlogged soil conditions leading to the production of inhibitory compounds by the bacterial strains under microaerobic conditions.
19936048	Most of our understanding of plant genome structure and evolution has come from the careful annotation of small (e.g., 100 kb) sequenced genomic regions or from automated annotation of complete genome sequences. Here, we sequenced and carefully annotated a contiguous 22 Mb region of maize chromosome 4 using an improved pseudomolecule for annotation. The sequence segment was comprehensively ordered, oriented, and confirmed using the maize optical map. Nearly 84% of the sequence is composed of transposable elements (TEs) that are mostly nested within each other, of which most families are low-copy. We identified 544 gene models using multiple levels of evidence, as well as five miRNA genes. Gene fragments, many captured by TEs, are prevalent within this region. Elimination of gene redundancy from a tetraploid maize ancestor that originated a few million years ago is responsible in this region for most disruptions of synteny with sorghum and rice. Consistent with other sub-genomic analyses in maize, small RNA mapping showed that many small RNAs match TEs and that most TEs match small RNAs. These results, performed on approximately 1% of the maize genome, demonstrate the feasibility of refining the B73 RefGen_v1 genome assembly by incorporating optical map, high-resolution genetic map, and comparative genomic data sets. Such improvements, along with those of gene and repeat annotation, will serve to promote future functional genomic and phylogenomic research in maize and other grasses.
19936061	Maize is a major cereal crop and an important model system for basic biological research. Knowledge gained from maize research can also be used to genetically improve its grass relatives such as sorghum, wheat, and rice. The primary objective of the Maize Genome Sequencing Consortium (MGSC) was to generate a reference genome sequence that was integrated with both the physical and genetic maps. Using a previously published integrated genetic and physical map, combined with in-coming maize genomic sequence, new sequence-based genetic markers, and an optical map, we dynamically picked a minimum tiling path (MTP) of 16,910 bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) and fosmid clones that were used by the MGSC to sequence the maize genome. The final MTP resulted in a significantly improved physical map that reduced the number of contigs from 721 to 435, incorporated a total of 8,315 mapped markers, and ordered and oriented the majority of FPC contigs. The new integrated physical and genetic map covered 2,120 Mb (93%) of the 2,300-Mb genome, of which 405 contigs were anchored to the genetic map, totaling 2,103.4 Mb (99.2% of the 2,120 Mb physical map). More importantly, 336 contigs, comprising 94.0% of the physical map (approximately 1,993 Mb), were ordered and oriented. Finally we used all available physical, sequence, genetic, and optical data to generate a golden path (AGP) of chromosome-based pseudomolecules, herein referred to as the B73 Reference Genome Sequence version 1 (B73 RefGen_v1).
19936069	Full-length cDNA (FLcDNA) sequencing establishes the precise primary structure of individual gene transcripts. From two libraries representing 27 B73 tissues and abiotic stress treatments, 27,455 high-quality FLcDNAs were sequenced. The average transcript length was 1.44 kb including 218 bases and 321 bases of 5' and 3' UTR, respectively, with 8.6% of the FLcDNAs encoding predicted proteins of fewer than 100 amino acids. Approximately 94% of the FLcDNAs were stringently mapped to the maize genome. Although nearly two-thirds of this genome is composed of transposable elements (TEs), only 5.6% of the FLcDNAs contained TE sequences in coding or UTR regions. Approximately 7.2% of the FLcDNAs are putative transcription factors, suggesting that rare transcripts are well-enriched in our FLcDNA set. Protein similarity searching identified 1,737 maize transcripts not present in rice, sorghum, Arabidopsis, or poplar annotated genes. A strict FLcDNA assembly generated 24,467 non-redundant sequences, of which 88% have non-maize protein matches. The FLcDNAs were also assembled with 41,759 FLcDNAs in GenBank from other projects, where semi-strict parameters were used to identify 13,368 potentially unique non-redundant sequences from this project. The libraries, ESTs, and FLcDNA sequences produced from this project are publicly available. The annotated EST and FLcDNA assemblies are available through the maize FLcDNA web resource (www.maizecdna.org).
19936739	We developed a novel method to isolate functionally active single cells from environmental samples and named it the functional single-cell (FSC) isolation method. This method is based on a combination of substrate-responsive direct viable counts, live-cell staining with 5-carboxyfluorescein diacetate acetoxymethyl ester, and micromanipulation followed by cultivation in a medium. To evaluate this method, we applied it to study a denitrifying community in rice paddy soil. Similar denitrifier counts were obtained by the conventional most probable number analysis and our FSC isolation method. Using the FSC isolation method, 37 denitrifying bacteria were isolated, some of which harbored copper-containing nitrite reductase gene (nirK). The 16S rRNA gene analysis showed that members belonging to the genera Azospirillum and Ochrobactrum may be the major denitrifiers in the rice paddy soil. These results indicate that the FSC isolation method is a useful tool to obtain functionally active single cells from environmental samples.
19936943	Phosphorus (P), an important plant macronutrient, is a component of key molecules such as nucleic acids, phospholipids and ATP. P is often the limiting nutrient for crop yield potential because of the low concentration of soluble P that can be absorbed directly by plant. Plants have evolved a series of molecular and morphological adaptations to cope with P limitation. However, the molecular bases of these responses to P deficiency have not been thoroughly elucidated. In this report, the gene expression profiles of low-P-tolerant rice Zhongzao 18 (Oryza sativa ssp. Indica) and not-low-P-tolerant rice Lagrue (Oryza sativa ssp. Indica) roots at 6 h, 24 h and 72 h under low P stress were investigated and compared with a control (normal P conditions) profile, using a DNA chip of 60,000 oligos (70 mer) that represented all putative genes of the rice genome. A total of 1,518 and 2,358 genes exhibited alterations in expression in response to low P stress in at least one of the three time points in rice Zhongzao 18 and rice Lagrue, respectively. The differentially expressed genes included those involved in phosphate (Pi) transportation, transportations except for Pi transportation, phosphatase, enzymes other than phosphatase, primary metabolism, secondary metabolism and so on. Several genes involved in glycolysis and TCA cycle were up-regulated during the early stages of low P treatment in rice Zhongzao 18 roots, but not in rice Lagrue roots. The results may provide useful information to further studies of the molecular mechanism of plant adaptation to low P and thus facilitate research in improving P utilization in crop species.
19937204	Phosphorus (P) is one of the most essential macronutrients required for plant growth. Although it is abundant in soil, P is often the limiting nutrient for crop yield potential because of the low concentration of soluble P that plants can absorb directly. The gene expression profile was investigated in rice roots at 6, 24 and 72 h under low P stress and compared with a control (normal P) profile, using a DNA chip of 60000 oligos (70 mer) that represented all putative genes of the rice genome. A total of 795 differentially expressed genes were identified in response to phosphate (Pi) starvation in at least one of the treatments. Based on the analysis, we found that: (i) The genes coding for the Pi transporter, acid phosphatase and RNase were up-regulated in rice roots; (ii) the genes involved in glycolysis were first up-regulated and then down-regulated; (iii) several genes involved in N metabolism and lipid metabolism changed their expression patterns; (iv) some genes involved in cell senescence and DNA or protein degradation were up-regulated; and (v) some transmembrane transporter genes were up-regulated. The results may provide useful information in the molecular process associated with Pi deficiency and thus facilitate research in improving Pi utilization in crop species.
19938377	The role of the hexokinases (HXKs) as glucose (Glc) sensors has been mainly demonstrated for Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) HXK1 (AtHXK1) but has yet to be shown in other plant species. In our recent publication, we reported that two rice (Oryza sativa) HXKs, OsHXK5 and OsHXK6, also function as Glc sensors. These two enzymes harbor both mitochondrial targeting peptides (mTPs) and nuclear localization signals (NLSs), and we confirmed their dual-targeting ability to nuclei and mitochondria using GFP fusion experiments. Consistently, it has been previously known that AtHXK1 is predominantly associated with mitochondria but is also present in nuclei in vivo at appreciable levels. Notably, the expression of OsHXK5, OsHXK6, or their catalytically inactive mutant alleles complemented the Arabidopsis glucose insensitive2 (gin2) mutant. In addition, transgenic rice plants overexpressing OsHXK5 or OsHXK6 exhibited hypersensitive plant growth retardation and enhanced repression of the Rubisco small subunit (RbcS) gene in response to glucose treatment. Our results thus provided evidence that OsHXK5 and OsHXK6 can function as glucose sensors in rice. Hence, the available current data suggest that the role of the HXKs as Glc sensors may be conserved in both monocot and dicot plant species, and that the nuclear localization of AtHXK1, OsHXK5 and OsHXK6 may be critical for Glc sensing and signaling.
19938484	The preliminary role of calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) in stress response is defined but the exact function of OsCIPK10 gene in rice stress response and its expression pattern yet unclear. In this study we explored the possible functions of OsCIPK10 gene by reverse genetics approaches and also revealed its expression pattern by GUS staining. From the preliminary study of this gene we presumed its function to assist plant to resist stress but over-expressed OsCIPK10 rice transgenic lines showed no significant phenotypic differences from the wild type either under high salt or low potassium conditions, however the gene knockdown plants using inverted repeat strategy presented meaningful healthy plants compared to wild type under the stress of salt. Further we checked the expression profile under high salt and low potassium conditions in wild type and found that OsCIPK10 decreases under high salt and increases on low potassium conditions. So we speculate that OsCIPK10 is actually going to function in response to high salt and low potassium stress. We also explored the expression pattern of this gene using Gus staining and found that gene expresses in all plant tissues, the only exception observed was its higher expression in the vascular tissues.
19938485	Filamentation temperature-sensitive H (FtsH) is an ATP-dependent metalloprotease in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Homology-based analysis was applied to determine 12 ftsH genes in Arabidopsis genome and 9 members in rice genome. Distribution of these ftsH genes on each chromosome displayed a clear preference for some chromosomes such as chromosome 1, 2, 5 of Arabidopsis and chromosome 1,5 of rice. All 21 FtsH proteins were subcellularly targeted to chloroplast or mitochondria. These members could be phylogenetically assorted as eight groups, of which no ortholog of AtFtsH12 in rice was detected. Paralogs in each group shared similarity higher than 80% and orthologs higher than 70%. This strongly indicated that the members from single group were descended from a common ancestral gene. Four pairs of paralogs, AtftsH1/5, AtftsH2/8, AtftsH7/9 and AftsH3/10 were found in Arabidopsis genome. However, only two pairs of ftsH paralogs, OsftsH3/8 and OsftsH4/5, resided in rice genome. The highly homologous members in each group performed striking conservation of exon-intron boundaries and preference for the variable residues in function domains. By contrast, there was significant difference in base composition and sequence length of introns. The comparative analysis of the ftsH gene families of Arabidopsis and rice provided the basis for characteristic and function research of ftsH genes in other plants.
19938625	PCR-analysis of intraspecific and interspecific polymorphism of sorghum, soryz and their nearest relatives (maize, rice) has been conducted. The level of polymorphism within the sample was 100%. Interspecific polymorphism (species of sorghum and soryz) was 96.2% that testifies the wide changeability of the analyzed samples. Clasterisation of the genotypes occurred according to their species.
19939441	Standard surgical treatment for CIN may impair fertility generating a need for alternative treatment options. We tested the efficacy and toxicity of oral DIM in the treatment of CIN 2 or 3 lesions. Patients with biopsy-proven cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2 or 3 scheduled for loop electrosurgical excision procedure (LEEP) were randomized 2:1 to receive diindolylmethane (DIM) (BioResponse-DIM, BioResponse, Boulder, CO) orally at approximately 2 mg/kg/day for 12 weeks or placebo (defatted rice bran, BioResponse). Subjects were evaluated every 3-4 months for 1 year. Analysis of data up to 1 year was assessed including Pap smear, HPV, colposcopy, biopsy and physical examination were performed at follow-up. Central pathology review confirmed all histology diagnoses. To date, 64 subjects (mean age 28 years, range 18-61) have been enrolled (45 in the DIM arm, 19 in the placebo arm), with 60 available for analysis. Average follow-up was 6 months. At enrollment, 58% were diagnosed with CIN 2 and 42% with CIN 3, 57% of subjects were Caucasian, 15% African American, 12% Hispanic and 17% Asian. During treatment 2 subjects (3%) complained of nausea (grade 2) at the 3- to 4-month visit. No systemic toxicities were observed (normal CBC, LFTs, comprehensive metabolic). Forty-six subjects had biopsies at first follow-up (77%). Twenty-one subjects (47%) in the DIM group had improved CIN with a decrease by 1-2 grades or a normal result. Median time to improvement was 5 months. Improved Pap smear was seen in 49% (22/45) with either a less severe abnormality or normal result. Colposcopy improved in twenty-five subjects in the DIM group (56%). Of these 25 subjects, 21 (84%) had improved colposcopic impression, 13 (52%) had a decrease in involved quadrants and 18 (72%) had a decrease in lesion number. Complete colposcopic response was observed in 4 subjects (9%). Stratifying by level of dysplasia, age, race, HPV status, tobacco use, contraceptive used did not alter the results. At median follow-up of 6 months, 85% of subjects have not required LEEP based on routine clinical triage of improving global assessment. There was no statistically significant difference in any outcome between the DIM and placebo group. Oral DIM at 2 mg/kg/day is well tolerated with no significant toxicity. We observed a high rate of clinically significant improvement in confirmed CIN 2 or 3 lesions among both treatment groups in this randomized clinical trial.
19939554	Mesoporous MCM-41, MCM-48 and SBA-15 were synthesized using Rice husk ash (RHA) as the silica source and their defective Si-OH sites were functionalized by 3-chloropropyltrimethoxysilane (CPTMS) which was subsequently grafted with amine compounds, Tris(2-aminoethyl)amine (TREN) and Tetraethylenepentamine (TEPA). X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and BET results of the parent mesoporous silica suggested their closeness of structural properties to those obtained from conventional silica sources. CO(2) adsorption of branched amine TREN and straight chain amine TEPA at 25, 50 and 75 degrees C was obtained by Thermogravimetric Analyser (TGA) at atmospheric pressure. TREN grafted mesoporous silica showed 7% of CO(2) adsorption while TEPA grafted mesoporous silicas showed less CO(2) adsorption, which is due to the presence of isolated amine groups in TREN. TREN grafted mesoporous silicas were also observed to be selective towards CO(2), thermally stable and recyclable. The order of CO(2) adsorption with respect to amount of amine grafting was observed to be MCM-48/TREN>MCM-41/TREN>SBA-15/TREN.
19939835	High-affinity Na(+) uptake in plants and its mediation by HKT transporters have been studied in very few species. This study expands the knowledge of high-affinity Na(+) uptake in land plants for both uptake characteristics and involvement of HKT transporters. In non-flowering plants, we analyzed the Na(+) content of wild mosses, carried out experiments on K(+) and Na(+) uptake in the micromolar range of concentrations with the moss Physcomitrella patens and the liverwort Riccia fluitans, studied a Deltahkt1 mutant of P. patens and identified the HKT genes of the lycopodiophyta (clubmoss) Selaginella moellendorffii. In flowering plants we studied Na(+) uptake in the micromolar range of concentrations in 16 crop plant species, identified the HKT transporters that could mediate high-affinity Na(+) uptake in several species of the Triticeae tribe, and described some characteristics of high-affinity Na(+) uptake in other species. Our results suggest that high-affinity Na(+) uptake occurs in most land plants. In very few of them, rice and species in the Triticeae and Aveneae tribes of the Poaceae family, it is probably mediated by HKT transporters. In other plants, high-affinity Na(+) uptake is mediated by one or several transporters whose responses to the presence of K(+) or Ba(2+) are fundamentally different from those of HKT transporters.
19939999	In Bangladesh, poor rural families often deal with high food costs by purchasing primarily rice. Our objective was to characterize the relationship between household expenditure on rice and nonrice foods with maternal and child malnutrition. Food expenditure data and anthropometry were obtained in a population-based sample of 304,856 households in the Bangladesh Nutrition Surveillance Project, 2000-2005. Food expenditures were categorized as rice and nonrice foods and expressed as quintiles of proportional food expenditure. Of children aged 6-11, 12-23, and 24-59 mo, the prevalence of stunting was 33.5, 56.3, and 53.1%, respectively. The prevalence of maternal underweight (BMI < 18.5 kg/m(2)) was 37.3%. Among children aged 6-11, 12-23, and 24-59 mo, rice expenditures were associated with stunting [odds ratio (OR) 1.11, 95% CI 1.02-1.20, P = 0.01; OR 1.09, 95% CI 1.04-1.13, P < 0.0001; OR 1.13, 95% CI 1.08-1.18, P < 0.0001), respectively, among families in the highest compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders, and nonrice food expenditures were associated with stunting (OR 0.87, 95% CI 0.80-0.95, P = 0.002; OR 0.86, 95% CI 0.83-0.90, P < 0.0001; OR 0.89, 95% CI 0.85-0.94, P < 0.0001) among families in the highest compared with the lowest quintile, adjusting for potential confounders. In the highest compared with the lowest quintile, rice expenditures (OR 1.12, 95% CI 1.08-1.15, P < 0.0001) and nonrice food expenditures (OR 0.93, 95% CI 0.90-0.96, P < 0.0001) were associated with maternal underweight. Households that spent a greater proportion on nonrice foods and less on rice had a lower prevalence of maternal and child malnutrition.
19941927	The present study was conducted to assess the risk to human health by heavy metals (Cd, Cu, Pb, Zn, Ni and Cr) through the intake of locally grown vegetables, cereal crops and milk from wastewater irrigated site. Milk is not directly contaminated due to wastewater irrigation, but is an important route of food chain transfer of heavy metals from grass to animals. Heavy metal concentrations were several fold higher in all the collected samples from wastewater irrigated site compared to clean water irrigated ones. Cd, Pb and Ni concentrations were above the 'safe' limits of Indian and WHO/FAO standards in all the vegetables and cereals, but within the permissible limits in milk samples. The higher values of metal pollution index and health risk index indicated heavy metal contamination in the wastewater irrigated site that presented a significant threat of negative impact on human health. Rice and wheat grains contained less heavy metals as compared to the vegetables, but health risk was greater due to higher contribution of cereals in the diet. The study suggests that wastewater irrigation led to accumulation of heavy metals in food stuff causing potential health risks to consumers.
19942615	Basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins are a class of transcription factors found throughout eukaryotic organisms. Classification of the complete sets of bHLH proteins in the sequenced genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice) has defined the diversity of these proteins among flowering plants. However, the evolutionary relationships of different plant bHLH groups and the diversity of bHLH proteins in more ancestral groups of plants are currently unknown. In this study, we use whole-genome sequences from nine species of land plants and algae to define the relationships between these proteins in plants. We show that few (less than 5) bHLH proteins are encoded in the genomes of chlorophytes and red algae. In contrast, many bHLH proteins (100-170) are encoded in the genomes of land plants (embryophytes). Phylogenetic analyses suggest that plant bHLH proteins are monophyletic and constitute 26 subfamilies. Twenty of these subfamilies existed in the common ancestors of extant mosses and vascular plants, whereas six further subfamilies evolved among the vascular plants. In addition to the conserved bHLH domains, most subfamilies are characterized by the presence of highly conserved short amino acid motifs. We conclude that much of the diversity of plant bHLH proteins was established in early land plants, over 440 million years ago.
19943018	The genetic divergence of sixteen rice cultivars regarding their resistance to the rice stem bug, Tibraca limbativentris Stål, was estimated by multivariate analysis techniques. The experiment was carried out in greenhouse, in randomized block design with eight replications. Eight plant resistance related traits were evaluated. Genetic divergence was evaluated by multivariate procedures: generalized Mahalanobis (D(2)) distance, the Tocher's grouping optimization method and canonical variables. The most dissimilar cultivars were Bico Ganga and Marabá Branco, while Agulha and Branco Tardão were the most similar. Five clusters were formed by the Tocher's optimization method. Three canonic variables explained 88.5% of the observed variation. We concluded that the multivariate analysis techniques are suitable for analyzing the genetic divergence among rice cultivars, indicating Bico Ganga and Marabá Branco as the most promising for future breeding programs of resistance to the rice stem bug.
19943086	Perennial ryegrass is an obligate outbreeding pasture grass of the Poaceae family, with a two-locus (S and Z) gametophytic self-incompatibility (SI) mechanism. This system has provided a major obstacle to targeted varietal development, and enhanced knowledge is expected to support more efficient breeding strategies. Comparative genetics and physical mapping approaches have been developed to permit molecular cloning of the SI genes. SI gene-linked genetic markers based on heterologous cDNA restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs) and homologous genomic DNA-derived simple sequence repeats (SSRs) were converted to single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) format for efficient genotyping. Genetic mapping identified the location of SI loci and demonstrated macrosynteny between related grass species. S- and Z-linked bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones were sequenced using massively parallel pyrosequencing technology to provide the first physical mapping data for Poaceae SI loci. The sequence assembly process suggested a lower prevalence of middle repetitive sequences in the Z locus region and hence precedence for positional cloning strategy. In silico mapping using data from rice, Brachypodium distachyon and Sorghum revealed high sequence conservation in the vicinity of the Z locus region between SI and self-compatible (SC) grass species. Physical mapping identified a total of nine genes encoded in the Z locus region. Expression profiling and nucleotide diversity assessment identified two Z-linked genes, LpTC116908 and LpDUF247, as plausible candidates for the male and female determinants of the S-Z SI system.
19943163	The ability of genetic manipulation to yield greatly increased concentrations of free amino acids (FAAs) in seeds of soybean was evaluated by introduction of a feedback-insensitive mutant enzyme of tryptophan (Trp) biosynthesis into two transformation-competent breeding lines deficient in major seed storage proteins. The storage protein-deficient lines exhibited increased accumulation of certain other seed proteins as well as of FAAs including arginine (Arg) and asparagine in mature seeds. Introduction of the gene for a feedback-insensitive mutant of an alpha subunit of rice anthranilate synthase (OASA1D) into the two high-FAA breeding lines by particle bombardment resulted in a >10-fold increase in the level of free Trp in mature seeds compared with that in nontransgenic seeds. The amount of free Trp in these transgenic seeds was similar to that in OASA1D transgenic seeds of the wild-type cultivar Jack. The composition of total amino acids in seeds of the high-FAA breeding lines remained largely unaffected by the expression of OASA1D with the exception of an increase in the total Trp content. Our results therefore indicate that the extra nitrogen resource originating from storage protein deficiency was used exclusively for the synthesis of inherent alternative nitrogen reservoirs such as free Arg and not for deregulated Trp biosynthesis conferred by OASA1D. The intrinsic null mutations responsible for storage protein deficiency and the OASA1D transgene affecting Trp content were thus successfully combined and showed additive effects on the amino acid composition of soybean seeds.
19943464	Weedy rice (Oryza sativa f. spontanea) is an important resource for breeding and evolutionary studies. The present study was carried out to identify the genotype of weedy rice strains responsible for variation of pericarp color by sequencing exon 6 of the Rc gene. Haplotype analysis revealed that rice strains with light red- and red-pericarp lacked the 14 bp deletion in the Rc gene, while rice strains with white-, brown and light green-pericarp contained the 14 bp deletion. A single nucleotide polymorphism (C-->A SNP) in exon 6 of the Rc gene was not found in all the weedy rice strains examined. This indicates that white pericarp allele in weedy rice gene pools of today might have originated by gene flow from locally grown modern rice varieties with white pericap into established gene pools of wild rice.
19943481	To apply the near infrared spectroscopy in quality control for excipients of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). A new type of transmittance and reflectance integration sphere accessory and a transmittance accessory were used to collect the spectra of processed honey and rice wine, respectively. Determination method of reducing sugar and ethanol in processed honey were established with partial least squares (PLS). The correlation coefficients (r), the root mean square error of calibration (RMSEC) and the root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) of the proposed models were 0.9593, 1.00% and 1.19% for reducing sugar; 0.9529, 0.17% and 0.24% for ethanol. The proposed method is fast, non-destructive, simple and accurate, and can be applied to at-spot detection,
19943649	Burning crop residues is a common postharvest practice on farmland, leading to the accumulation of black carbon (BC) in the soil. To understand the potential role of BC in immobilizing toxic Cr(VI) in soil, this study evaluated the Cr(VI) sorption kinetics at pH levels ranging from 3 to 7 and examined the reaction mechanism of Cr(VI) with BC derived from burning rice straw. The BC samples, after reacting with Cr(VI), were analyzed using Cr K-edge X-ray absorption spectroscopy. The results showed that Cr(VI) was sorbed and subsequently reduced to Cr(III), which was bound to the BC surface through surface complexation and precipitation. As indicated by the diffuse reflection infrared Fourier transform spectra, the phenolic groups of BC are the dominant drivers of Cr(VI) reduction, giving rise to carbonyl/carboxyl groups on the BC surface. The reaction rate of Cr(VI) with BC increased from 10(-3.62) to 10(-1.65) h(-1) as pH was decreased from 7 to 3 because Cr(VI) sorption and reduction both occur faster at low pH. These results suggest that BC derived from burning crop residue is an effective reductant for Cr(VI) and may play an important role in determining the fate of Cr(VI) in BC-rich farmland soils.
19944174	The wild-rice genus Zizania includes four species disjunctly distributed in eastern Asia and North America, with three species (Z. aquatica, Z. palustris, and Z. texana) in North America and one (Z. latifolia) in eastern Asia. The phylogeny of Zizania was constructed using sequences of seven DNA fragments (atpB-rbcL, matK, rps16, trnL-F, trnH-psbA, nad1, and Adh1a) from chloroplast, mitochondrial, and nuclear genomes. Zizania is shown to be monophyletic with the North American species forming a clade and the eastern Asian Z. latifolia sister to the North American clade. The divergence between the eastern Asian Z. latifolia and the North American clade was dated to be 3.74 (95% HPD: 1.04-7.23) million years ago (mya) using the Bayesian dating method with the combined atpB-rbcL, matK, rps16, trnL-F, and nad1 data. Biogeographic analyses using a likelihood method suggest the North American origin of Zizania and its migration into eastern Asia via the Bering land bridge. Among the three North American species, the organellar data and the haplotype network of the nuclear Adh1a gene show a close relationship between Z. palustris and the narrowly distributed endangered species Z. texana. Bayesian dating estimated the divergence of North American Zizania to be 0.71 (95% HPD: 0.12-1.54) mya in the Pleistocene. The non-monophyly of Z. palustris and Z. aquatica in the organellar and nuclear data is most likely caused by incomplete lineage sorting, yet low-frequency unidirectional introgression of Z. palustris into Z. aquatica is present in the nuclear data as well.
19944601	Rice straw is an attractive lignocellulosic material for bioethanol production since it is one of the most abundant renewable resources. It has several characteristics, such as high cellulose and hemicelluloses content that can be readily hydrolyzed into fermentable sugars. But there occur several challenges and limitations in the process of converting rice straw to ethanol. The presence of high ash and silica content in rice straw makes it an inferior feedstock for ethanol production. One of the major challenges in developing technology for bioethanol production from rice straw is selection of an appropriate pretreatment technique. The choice of pretreatment methods plays an important role to increase the efficiency of enzymatic saccharification thereby making the whole process economically viable. The present review discusses the available technologies for bioethanol production using rice straw.
19945215	The purpose of this study was to assess the potential risk of children skin lesions from arsenic-contaminated rice (Oryza sativa) consumption in West Bengal (India). Published age- and gender-specific skin lesions data in West Bengal were reanalyzed and incorporated into a Weibull dose-response model to predict children skin lesion prevalence. Monomethylarsonous acid (MMA(III)) levels in urine was used as a biomarker that could be predicted from a human physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model. This study integrated arsenic contents in irrigation water, bioaccumulation factors of paddy soil, cooking methods, and arsenic bioavailability of cooked rice in gastrointestinal tract into a probabilistic risk model. Results indicated that children aged between 13 and 18 years might pose a relative higher potential risk of skin lesions to arsenic-contaminated cooked rice (odds ratios (ORs)=1.18 (95% CI 1.12-2.15)) than those of 1-6 years children (ORs=0.98 (0.85-1.40)). This study revealed the need to consider the relationships between cooking method and arsenic in cooked rice when assessing the risk associated with children skin lesions from rice consumption. This study suggested that arsenic-associated skin lesions risk from arsenic-contaminated rice consumption would be reduced significantly by adopting traditional rice cooking method (wash until clean; rice:water=1:6; discard excess water) as followed in West Bengal (India) and using water containing lower arsenic (e.g., <10 microg L(-1)) for cooking.
19945866	The production of biodiesel from a naturally isolated strain of Chlamydomonas was investigated. The microalgal strain was isolated from the rice paddy-field soil samples during a screening program. The identification was done using physiological and molecular approaches. After reaching the stationary phase of growth, the total content of the lipids was extracted. The extracted fatty acids were primarily esterified and then identified through TLC and GC/MS analysis. Several types of fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) were identified in the isolated microalga and the presence of at least nine FAMEs in Chlamydomonas sp. MCCS 026 was shown. The total fatty acid content of the isolated strain was 25%. The composition of fatty acids in the studied species of microalga was mainly docosanoic acid methyl ester, tetradecanoic acid methyl ester, hexadecanoic acid methyl ester and nonanoic acid methyl ester.
19946760	Rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate was used as fermentation medium for ethanol production by Pichia stipitis NRRL Y-7124. Shaking bath experiments were initially performed aiming to establish the best initial xylose concentration to be used in this bioconversion process. In the sequence, assays were carried out under different agitation (100 to 200 rpm) and aeration (V(flask)/V(medium) ratio varying from 2.5 to 5.0) conditions, and the influence of these variables on the fermentative parameters values (ethanol yield factor, Y(P/S); cell yield factor, Y(X/S); and ethanol volumetric productivity, Q(P)) was investigated through a 2(2) full-factorial design. Initial xylose concentration of about 50 g/l was the most suitable for the development of this process, since the yeast was able to convert substrate in product with high efficiency. The factorial design assays showed a strong influence of both process variables in all the evaluated responses. The agitation and aeration increase caused a deviation in the yeast metabolism from ethanol to biomass production. The best results (Y(P/S) = 0.37 g/g and Q(P) = 0.39 g/l.h) were found when the lowest aeration (2.5 V(flask)/V(medium) ratio) and highest agitation (200 rpm) levels were employed. Under this condition, a process efficiency of 72.5% was achieved. These results demonstrated that the establishment of adequate conditions of aeration is of great relevance to improve the ethanol production from xylose by Pichia stipitis, using rice straw hemicellulosic hydrolysate as fermentation medium.
19947260	To observe the effect of acupoint sticking on clinical symptoms and life quality in patients with bronchial asthma. Multicenter randomized double-blind clinical trial was done, one hundred and eighty-eight cases were divided into a medication acupoint sticking group (125 cases) and a placebo group (63 cases). Dazhui (GV 14), Feishu (BL 13), Tiantu (CV 22), etc. were selected in both groups. The medication cakes were made of grinding pepper, brassica alba seeds, asarum, etc. into fine powder mixed with ginger oil and ginger juice, applied on acupoints in the acupoint sticking group. While another compound cakes made of powder of red rice, black rice, maize mixed with small amount of ginger juice, were used in the placebo group. Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire(AQLQ), symptom scores during the day and night, scores of self effect, and the value of lung function were observed. The value of daily behavior and environmental factors of AQLQ, total scores of AQLQ, daytime symptoms and scores of self effect in the medication acupoint sticking group, were significantly improved compared to those of placebo group (all P<0.05). The lung function of forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) and the percentage of forced expiratory volume in one second in predicted value (FEV1/FVC) had no significant diffrence between two groups (both P>0.05). The acupoint sticking therapy can significantly improve clinical symptoms of patients with bronchial asthma, and can improve life quality of the patients.
19948071	It is essential to elucidate the relationship between metabolic and genomic diversity to understand the genetic regulatory networks associated with the changing metabolo-phenotype among natural variation and/or populations. Recent innovations in metabolomics technologies allow us to grasp the comprehensive features of the metabolome. Metabolite quantitative trait analysis is a key approach for the identification of genetic loci involved in metabolite variation using segregated populations. Although several attempts have been made to find correlative relationships between genetic and metabolic diversity among natural populations in various organisms, it is still unclear whether it is possible to discover such correlations between each metabolite and the polymorphisms found at each chromosomal location. To assess the correlative relationship between the metabolic and genomic diversity found in rice accessions, we compared the distance matrices for these two "omics" patterns in the rice accessions. We selected 18 accessions from the world rice collection based on their population structure. To determine the genomic diversity of the rice genome, we genotyped 128 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers to calculate the genetic distance among the accessions. To identify the variations in the metabolic fingerprint, a soluble extract from the seed grain of each accession was analyzed with one dimensional (1)H-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR). We found no correlation between global metabolic diversity and the phylogenetic relationships among the rice accessions (r(s) = 0.14) by analyzing the distance matrices (calculated from the pattern of the metabolic fingerprint in the 4.29- to 0.71-ppm (1)H chemical shift) and the genetic distance on the basis of the RFLP markers. However, local correlation analysis between the distance matrices (derived from each 0.04-ppm integral region of the (1)H chemical shift) against genetic distance matrices (derived from sets of 3 adjacent markers along each chromosome), generated clear correlations (r(s) > 0.4, p < 0.001) at 34 RFLP markers. This combinatorial approach will be valuable for exploring the correlative relationships between metabolic and genomic diversity. It will facilitate the elucidation of complex regulatory networks and those of evolutionary significance in plant metabolic systems.
19948354	In the present study, we have investigated the protein expression profile of rice leaves under arsenic (As) stress. Two-week-old rice seedlings were exposed to two concentrations of arsenate (50 or 100 microM), and leaf samples were collected 4d after treatment. To elucidate the As stress-induced differentially expressed proteins in rice leaves, proteins were extracted from the control and treated samples, separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE), and visualized by staining with Coomassie Brilliant Blue (CBB). A total of 14 protein spots showed reproducible changes in expression of at least 1.5-fold when compared to the control and showed a similar expression pattern in both treatments. Of these 14 spots, 8 were up-regulated and 6 were down-regulated following exposure to As. These proteins were identified using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry (MS). The increased expression of several proteins associated with energy production and metabolism suggests that higher energy is required for activation of the metabolic processes in leaves exposed to As. On the other hand, results from the 2-DE analysis, combined with immunoblotting, clearly revealed that the ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (RuBisCO) large subunit was significantly decreased under As stress. Thus, the down-regulation of RuBisCO and chloroplast 29 kDa ribonucleoproteins might be the possible causes of the decreased photosynthesis rate under As stress.
19948806	Clostridium cellulovorans 743B was isolated from a wood chip pile and is an anaerobic and mesophilic spore-forming bacterium. This organism degrades native substrates in soft biomass such as corn fiber and rice straw efficiently by producing an extracellular enzyme complex called the cellulosome. Here we report the genome sequence of C. cellulovorans 743B.
19949766	This study identified four and five quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for 1,000-grain weight (TGW) and spikelets per panicle (SPP), respectively, using rice recombinant inbred lines. QTLs for the two traits (SPP3a and TGW3a, TGW3b and SPP3b) were simultaneously identified in the two intervals between RM3400 and RM3646 and RM3436 and RM5995 on chromosome 3. To validate QTLs in the interval between RM3436 and RM5995, a BC(3)F(2) population was obtained, in which TGW3b and SPP3b were simultaneously mapped to a 2.6-cM interval between RM15885 and W3D16. TGW3b explained 50.4% of the phenotypic variance with an additive effect of 1.81 g. SPP3b explained 29.1% of the phenotypic variance with an additive effect of 11.89 spikelets. The interval had no effect on grain yield because it increased SPP but decreased TGW and vice versa. Grain shape was strongly associated with TGW and was used for QTL analysis in the BC(3)F(2) population. Grain length, grain width, and grain thickness were also largely controlled by TGW3b. At present, it is not clear whether one pleiotropic QTL or two linked QTLs were located in the interval. However, the conclusion could be made ultimately by isolation of TGW3b. The strategy for TGW3b isolation is discussed.
19950521	To investigate the hypocholesterolemic activity of red yeast rice (RYR) and its underlying mechanism. Three groups of hamsters were fed either the control diet or one of the two experimental diets containing by weight 0.1% RYR (0.1RYR) or 0.3% RYR (0.3RYR). Blood (0.5 mL) was collected from the retro-orbital sinus into a heparinized capillary tube at the end of week 0, 3, and 6. Plasma lipoproteins were measured using enzymatic kits, while fecal neutral and acidic sterols were quantified using a gas-liquid chromatography. Plasma total cholesterol was reduced by 12% in 0.1RYR group and by 18% in 0.3RYR group compared with the control value. Similarly, plasma triacylglycerol was decreased by 11% in 0.1RYR group and by 24% in 0.3RYR group. Western blotting analysis demonstrated that RYR had no effect on sterol regulatory element binding protein 2, liver X receptor, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutary-CoA reductase, LDL receptor, and cholesterol-7alpha-hydroxylase. HPLC analysis confirmed that RYR contained 0.88% monacolin K. It was recently found that RYR supplementation increased excretion of fecal acidic sterols by 3-4 folds compared with the control value. Hypocholesterolemic activity of RYR is mediated at least partially by enhancement of acidic sterol excretion.
19950593	To investigate the relationship between the expression of glucose transporter protein 1 and the apoptosis of neuron during hypoxic-ischemia brain damage in neonatal rats. Total 120 10-day old SD rats were divided into normal group, sham control group and hypoxic-ischemia (HI) group. In HI group, hypoxic-ischemia brain damage (HIBD) were generated according to Rice-Vannucci method, brain tissues were harvested at 2, 8, 24, 48 and 72 h after HI. The brain samples were also collected at the same time points in normal group and sham control group. The pathological changes was observed by hematoxylin-eosin (HE) staining, the mRNA expression of glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) was detected by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), the protein expressions of GLUT1 and cleaved caspase-3 (CC3) were detected by immunohistochemistry, the apoptosis of neuron was measured by TdT-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining. HE staining showed that the degree of brain cell damage increased with time after HI, the loss of neuronal cells peaked at 48 h, while the cells in control group apperanted in an orderly and normal morphology. The mRNA and protein expressions of GLUT1 were increased after HI, which began to increase at 2 h, and reach the peak at 24 h. and the expression levels at each time points were statistically higher (P< 0.01) than those in control group. CC3 protein expression also began to increase at 2 h, peaked at 48 h after HI, which was higher than that of control group (P<0.01). The number of positive cells was significantly increased after HI,with a peak at 48 h. The mRNA and protein expression of GLUT1 in brain tissue increased significantly after hypoxic-ischemia, and the peak time was earlier than that of CC3 protein and cellular apoptosis. This suggests that GLUT1 expression upregulation may be a certain degree of inhibition on neuronal apoptosis.
19950654	The present study obtained data of rice canopy spectrum, and P and chlorophyll content at typical growth stages with different rates of P supply by means of solution experiment. The effects of P treatments on leaf P and chlorophyll content were analyzed statistically using LSD's multiple comparison at a probability of 0.05; By mutual information (MI) variable selection procedure, the optimal spectral variables were identified at 536, 630, 1040, 551 and 656 nm, and their corresponding mutual information values were 1.0575, 1.1039, 1.135 3, 1.1417 and 1.1494 respectively; based on these sensitive bands, the built feed-forward artificial neural network model (ANN) had higher precision for P content estimation than the multiple linear regression model (MLR). Its RMSE of cross-validation and R were 0.038 8 and 0.9882, respectively, for the calibration data set, and the RMSE of prediction and R were 0.0505 and 0.9892, respectively, for the test data set. Therefore, it was suggested that MI was encouraged for quantitative prediction of leaf P content in rice with visible/near infrared hyperspectral information without assumption on the relationship between independent and dependent variables. But more work is needed to explain why these bands are sensitive to leaf P content in rice.
19951405	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are endogenous single-stranded small RNAs that regulate the expression of specific mRNAs involved in diverse biological processes. In plants, miRNAs are generally encoded as a single species in independent transcriptional units, referred to as MIRNA genes, in contrast to animal miRNAs, which are frequently clustered. We performed a comparative genomic analysis in three model plants (rice, poplar and Arabidopsis) and characterized miRNA clusters containing two to eight miRNA species. These clusters usually encode miRNAs of the same family and certain share a common evolutionary origin across monocot and dicot lineages. In addition, we identified miRNA clusters harboring miRNAs with unrelated sequences that are usually not evolutionarily conserved. Strikingly, non-homologous miRNAs from the same cluster were predicted to target transcripts encoding related proteins. At least four Arabidopsis non-homologous clusters were expressed as single transcriptional units. Overexpression of one of these polycistronic precursors, producing Ath-miR859 and Ath-miR774, led to the DCL1-dependent accumulation of both miRNAs and down-regulation of their different mRNA targets encoding F-box proteins. In addition to polycistronic precursors carrying related miRNAs, plants also contain precursors allowing coordinated expression of non-homologous miRNAs to co-regulate functionally related target transcripts. This mechanism paves the way for using polycistronic MIRNA precursors as a new molecular tool for plant biologists to simultaneously control the expression of different genes.
19953130	The cryptic wheat-alien translocation T5DL.5DS-5MgS(0.95), with leaf rust and stripe rust resistance genes Lr57 and Yr40 transferred from Aegilops geniculata (UgMg) into common wheat, was further analyzed. Molecular genetic analysis using physically mapped ESTs showed that the alien segment in T5DL.5DS-5MgS(0.95) represented only a fraction of the wheat deletion bin 5DS2-0.78-1.00 and was less than 3.3 cM in length in the diploid wheat genetic map. Comparative genomic analysis indicated a high level of colinearity between the distal region of the long arm of chromosome 12 of rice and the genomic region spanning the Lr57 and Yr40 genes in wheat. The alien segment with genes Lr57 and Yr40 corresponds to fewer than four overlapping BAC or PAC clones of the syntenic rice chromosome arm 12L. The wheat-alien translocation breakpoint in T5DL.5DS-5MgS(0.95) was further localized to a single BAC clone of the syntenic rice genomic sequence. The small size of the terminal wheat-alien translocation, as established precisely with respect to Chinese Spring deletion bins and the syntenic rice genomic sequence, further confirmed the escaping nature of cryptic wheat-alien translocations in introgressive breeding. The molecular genetic resources and information developed in the present study will facilitate further fine-scale physical mapping and map-based cloning of the Lr57 and Yr40 genes.
19953291	Chloroplast biogenesis is most significant during the changes in cellular organization associated with leaf development in higher plants. To examine the physiological relationship between developing chloroplasts and host leaf cells during early leaf development, we investigated changes in the carbon and nitrogen contents in leaves at the P4 developmental stage of rice, during which leaf blade structure is established and early events of chloroplast differentiation occur. During the P4 stage, carbon content on a dry mass basis remained constant, whereas the nitrogen content decreased by 30%. Among carbohydrates, sucrose and starch accumulated to high levels early in the P4 stage, and glucose, fructose and cellulose degradation increased during the mid-to-late P4 stage. In the chloroplast-deficient leaves of the virescent-1 mutant of rice, however, the carbon and nitrogen contents, as well as the C/N ratio during the P4 stage, were largely unaffected. These observations suggest that developing rice leaves function as sink organs at the P4 stage, and that chloroplast biogenesis and carbon and nitrogen metabolism in the leaf cell is regulated independently at this stage.
1995335	A cDNA clone, named R2, has been isolated by screening a rice cell cDNA library with a redundant oligonucleotide probe derived from the conserved ATP binding site of cdc2+/CDC28 protein kinases. The cDNA contained the entire coding sequence for a 424 amino acid polypeptide with a molecular mass of 47.6 kDa. The R2 mRNA, 2.1 kb in size, was expressed in both cultured rice cells and rice seedlings at similar levels. The predicted R2 protein has canonical motifs for ATP binding and catalysis, and is significantly homologous (up to 47%) to members of the cdc2+/CDC28 subfamily of serine/threonine protein kinase. The R2 protein is a novel member of the subfamily.
19953415	3,4-Dichloropropionanilide (DCPA), or propanil, a post-emergent herbicide used on rice and wheat crops in the United States, is immunotoxic in vivo and in vitro. Although it has been documented that DCPA exerts differential effects on specific immune cell types and is toxic to the liver, the way in which DCPA modulates intracellular functions leading to these effects is less understood. In this study, Jurkat T cells and hepatocytes from C57Bl/6 mice were exposed to 100 microM DCPA for 1.5 h. Following incubation, subcellular fractions of each cell type were isolated. DCPA, when present, was removed from each cell fraction by liquid-liquid extraction. The extraction product was then analyzed for the presence of DCPA using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The cellular uptake of DCPA was monitored by detection of the molecular ion and product ion of DCPA. The analyses demonstrate that DCPA, a lipophilic compound, localizes primarily in the cytosol of T cells and hepatocytes. These results indicate that DCPA is able to cross the plasma membrane and is accessible to intracellular immunomodulatory effectors.
19953616	This study documents and interprets systemic stress during the agricultural transition in prehistoric Japan using linear enamel hypoplasia (LEH) defects and cribra orbitalia (CO) lesions. Middle to Final Jomon cultures (5000-2300 BP) from Honshu Island represent the foraging samples, while Yayoi cultures (2500-1700 BP) represent the early agricultural samples. Jomon foragers from eastern Japan had broad-based, intensive economies. Jomon foragers from western Japan had a greater focus on seasonally available, nutritionally poor resources, while Yayoi people were descendents of migrants from the East Asian continent and introduced wet rice economies to Japan. This study tests the hypotheses that wet rice economies will be associated with a lower prevalence of teeth/individuals affected by LEH defects in western Japan, while few differences in the prevalence of teeth/individuals with LEH defects will be observed between eastern Jomon people and Yayoi farmers. It is further predicted that similar CO prevalence will be observed between Jomon and Yayoi people given environmental similarities. Significantly greater frequencies of teeth affected by LEH defects are observed among western Jomon compared to Yayoi people. The prevalence of teeth with LEH defects is slightly elevated among eastern Jomon foragers compared to Yayoi agriculturalists. Significant differences in CO prevalence are not observed. Systemic stress prevalence in western Japan likely declined following wet-rice agriculture because this crop provided a predictable, renewable resource base. Systemic stress prevalence was similar between eastern Jomon and Yayoi people because both groups practiced intensive subsistence strategies. Similar CO prevalence reflects infectious diseases associated with living conditions.
19954492	Engineering of plant protection in cereals requires well characterized tissue-specific and wounding/pathogen-inducible promoters for targeted expression of pathogen responsive and resistance genes. We describe the isolation of seven wheat and rice defensin genes expressed in early developing grain and during grain germination, two developmental stages that are particularly vulnerable to pathogens and insects. Comparison of three-dimensional (3D) models of these rice and wheat PRPI defensins indicated variations in spatial architectures that could reflect their functional diversities. Wheat and rice were stably transformed with promoter-GUS fusion constructs and the spatial and temporal activities of four promoters were studied using whole-mount and histological assays. PRPI promoters were active before and at anthesis in both transgenic wheat and rice with activity mainly in the ovary. In rice, GUS activity was also observed in vascular tissue of the lemma, palea and anthers. After fertilization, GUS was strongly expressed in the outer cell layers of the pericarp and in the main vascular bundle of the grain. During, and a short time after, seed germination, wheat promoters were active in transgenic rice embryos, roots and/or coleoptiles. All wheat and rice promoters were strongly induced by wounding in leaf, stem and grain of transgenic rice plants. These results suggest that PRPI promoters will be useful for specific targeting and accumulation of proteins conferring resistance to pathogens in vulnerable tissues of developing and germinating grain.
19954968	Agricultural biomaterials such as crop stalks are natural sources of cellulosic fiber and have great potential as reinforced materials in bio-composites. In order to evaluate their potential as materials for reinforcement, the nano-mechanical properties of crop-stalk cell walls, i.e. those of cotton (Gossypium herbaceu) stalk, soybean (Glycine max) stalk, cassava (Manihot esculent) stalk, rice (Oryza sativa L.) straw, and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) straw, were investigated by means of nano-indentation and atomic force microscopy (AFM). The elastic modulus of wheat straw was found to be 20.8 GPa, which was higher than that of the other four crops. The highest hardness was observed in cotton stalk at 0.85 GPa. The elastic moduli of the crop stalks were lower than those of most of the hardwood species, but higher than that of some softwoods and of lyocell fiber. The mean value of the hardness of the five crop stalks' cell walls was higher than those of wood or lyocell fiber.
19956743	We describe a comprehensive and general approach for mapping centromeres and present a detailed characterization of two maize centromeres. Centromeres are difficult to map and analyze because they consist primarily of repetitive DNA sequences, which in maize are the tandem satellite repeat CentC and interspersed centromeric retrotransposons of maize (CRM). Centromeres are defined epigenetically by the centromeric histone H3 variant, CENH3. Using novel markers derived from centromere repeats, we have mapped all ten centromeres onto the physical and genetic maps of maize. We were able to completely traverse centromeres 2 and 5, confirm physical maps by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), and delineate their functional regions by chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) with anti-CENH3 antibody followed by pyrosequencing. These two centromeres differ substantially in size, apparent CENH3 density, and arrangement of centromeric repeats; and they are larger than the rice centromeres characterized to date. Furthermore, centromere 5 consists of two distinct CENH3 domains that are separated by several megabases. Succession of centromere repeat classes is evidenced by the fact that elements belonging to the recently active recombinant subgroups of CRM1 colonize the present day centromeres, while elements of the ancestral subgroups are also found in the flanking regions. Using abundant CRM and non-CRM retrotransposons that inserted in and near these two centromeres to create a historical record of centromere location, we show that maize centromeres are fluid genomic regions whose borders are heavily influenced by the interplay of retrotransposons and epigenetic marks. Furthermore, we propose that CRMs may be involved in removal of centromeric DNA (specifically CentC), invasion of centromeres by non-CRM retrotransposons, and local repositioning of the CENH3.
19956864	Our previous study revealed that fermented brown rice and rice bran (FBRA) suppresses rat colorectal carcinogenesis induced by azoxymethane, the colon-specific carcinogen. In the present study, we examined the suppressive effect of FBRA on colon carcinogenesis in ApcMin/+ mouse, a mouse model for human familial adenomatous polyposis. In contrast to previous findings with the carcinogen-induced model, administration of 5 and 10% FBRA had no effect on the tumor development in the colon of ApcMin/+ mice, suggesting that the modifying effects of FBRA on colorectal carcinogenesis are different depending on rodent models for colorectal carcinogenesis. However, when FBRA is administrated in dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-exposed ApcMin/+ mouse, a mouse model for the inflammation-related colorectal carcinogenesis, FBRA significantly suppressed the multiplicity of colon tumors in comparison with control diet group. FBRA administration suppressed the cell proliferative index, which is accompanied by the significantly decreased mRNA expressions of Cox2 and iNos in colonic mucosa exposed to DSS (p<0.04 and 0.02, respectively). These findings indicate that FBRA has chemopreventive effects specifically against inflammation-related tumorigenesis in the colon. Our findings also suggest that anti-inflammatory activity is one of the underlying mechanisms by which FBRA suppresses tumorigenesis in the colon.
19957018	The proteins harboring RING finger motif(s) have been shown to mediate protein-protein interactions that are relevant to a variety of cellular processes. In an effort to elucidate the evolutionary dynamics of the rice RING finger protein family, we have attempted to determine their genomic locations, expression diversity, and co-expressed genes via in silico analysis and semi-quantitative RT-PCR. A total of 425 retrieved genes appear to be distributed over all 12 of the chromosomes of rice with different distributions, and are reflective of the evolutionary dynamics of the rice genome. A genome-wide dataset harboring 155 gene expression omnibus sample plates evidenced some degree of differential evolutionary fates between members of RING-H2 and RING-HC types. Additionally, responses to abiotic stresses, such as salinity and drought, demonstrated that some degree of expression diversity existed between members of the RING finger protein genes. Interestingly, we determined that one RING-H2 finger protein gene (Os04g51400) manifested striking differences in expression patterns in response to abiotic stresses between leaf and culm-node tissues, further revealing responses highly similar to the majority of randomly selected co-expressed genes. The gene network of genes co-expressed with Os04g51400 may suggest some role in the salt response of the gene. These findings may shed further light on the evolutionary dynamics and molecular functional diversity of these proteins in complex cellular regulations.
19957439	In order to evaluate the hypothesis that nitrate uptake is under positive control by sugars, a simple noninvasive model was used to measure the effects of nine modulating sugars on the net nitrate uptake in rice under constant low nitrate concentration. The results showed that the fastest and greatest acceleration in nitrate uptake were observed after sucrose was added, and this change reached a peak 1.5 h after treatment. In addition, we found that 1 mM sucrose could affect the nitrate uptake in rice roots for 8.5 h. The three most positive effective sugars and one negative effective sugar were selected for further analyzing their effect on the expression of nitrate transporter gene OsNrt2.1. The result of RT-PCR showed that the expression of OsNrt2.1 was upregulated by sucrose, glucose and galactose. Among the three positive effective sugars tested, sucrose was found to have significant and continuous enhanced stimulation on OsNrt2.1 gene expression within 4 h, which indicated that sucrose could be as a specific signal to regulate the net nitrate uptake.
19957440	Drought stress significantly enhanced the capacity of the alternative respiratory pathway and induced AOX1a and AOX1b transcripts in rice seedling leaves. The drought-stressed seedlings pretreated with the inhibitor of the alternative respiratory pathway, 1 mM salicylhydroxamic acid, had a lower level of relative water content than the seedlings either subjected to drought or salicylhydroxamic acid treatment alone. This observation suggests that the alternative respiratory pathway could play a role in the tolerance of rice seedlings to drought stress. Pretreatment with exogenous hydrogen peroxide, salicylic acid, and abscisic acid alone mitigated the water loss of rice leaves exposed to drought stress. Exogenous application of hydrogen peroxide and salicylic acid increased the capacity of the alternative respiratory pathway and induced AOX1a and AOX1b transcripts, while exogenous abscisic acid failed to induce any expression of AOX1 genes. These observations suggest that rice AOX1a and AOX1b genes may be responsive especially to drought stress but not be induced by all of the stress signals related to drought.
19958136	Rice tungro disease (RTD) is a serious constraint to rice production in South and Southeast Asia. RTD is caused by Rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) and Rice tungro bacilliform virus. Rice cv. Utri Merah is resistant to RTSV. To identify the gene or genes involved in RTSV resistance, the association of genotypic and phenotypic variations for RTSV resistance was examined in backcross populations derived from Utri Merah and rice germplasm with known RTSV resistance. Genetic analysis revealed that resistance to RTSV in Utri Merah was controlled by a single recessive gene (tsv1) mapped within an approximately 200-kb region between 22.05 and 22.25 Mb of chromosome 7. A gene for putative translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G(tsv1)) was found in the tsv1 region. Comparison of eIF4G(tsv1) gene sequences among susceptible and resistant plants suggested the association of RTSV resistance with one of the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) sites found in exon 9 of the gene. Examination of the SNP site in the eIF4G(tsv1) gene among various rice plants resistant and susceptible to RTSV corroborated the association of SNP or deletions in codons for Val(1060-1061) of the predicted eIF4G(tsv1) with RTSV resistance in rice.
19958144	In Magnaporthe oryzae, pyriform conidia are the primary inoculum and the main source for disease dissemination in the field. In this study, we identified and characterized the COM1 gene that was disrupted in three insertional mutants producing slender conidia. COM1 encodes a putative transcription regulator unique to filamentous ascomycetes. The com1 disruption and deletion mutants had similar defects in conidium morphology and were significantly reduced in virulence on rice and barley seedlings. Microscopic examination revealed that the Deltacom1 mutants were defective in appressorium turgor generation, penetration, and infectious growth. COM1 was expressed constitutively in M. oryzae. The Com1 protein had putative helix-loop-helix structures and three predicted nuclear localization signal sequences. In transformants expressing COM1(335-613)-enhanced green fluorescent protein fusion constructs, fluorescence signals were observed in the nucleus. Our data indicated that the COM1 gene may encode a novel transcription regulator that regulates conidial development and invasive growth in M. oryzae.
19958572	The web-based Food Behaviour Questionnaire (FBQ) includes a 24-hour diet recall, a food frequency questionnaire, and questions addressing knowledge, attitudes, intentions, and food-related behaviours. The survey has been revised since it was developed and initially validated. The current study was designed to obtain qualitative feedback and to validate the FBQ diet recall. "Think aloud" techniques were used in cognitive interviews with dietitian experts (n=11) and grade six students (n=21). Multi-ethnic students (n=201) in grades six to eight at urban southern Ontario schools completed the FBQ and, subsequently, one-on-one diet recall interviews with trained dietitians. Food group and nutrient intakes were compared. Users provided positive feedback on the FBQ. Suggestions included adding more foods, more photos for portion estimation, and online student feedback. Energy and nutrient intakes were positively correlated between FBQ and dietitian interviews, overall and by gender and grade (all p<0.001). Intraclass correlation coefficients were ≥0.5 for energy and macro-nutrients, although the web-based survey underestimated energy (10.5%) and carbohydrate (-15.6%) intakes (p<0.05). Under-estimation of rice and pasta portions on the web accounted for 50% of this discrepancy. The FBQ is valid, relative to 24-hour recall interviews, for dietary assessment in diverse populations of Ontario children in grades six to eight.
19958808	Jasmonates are known to induce the transcriptional activation of plant defense genes, which leads to the production of jasmonate-regulated proteins (JRP). We previously cloned and characterized a novel jacalin-like lectin gene (Ta-JA1) from wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), which codes a modular JRP with disease response and jacalin-related lectin (JRL) domains and is present only in the Gramineae family. The function of this protein is still unclear. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that Ta-JA1 and related proteins from cereals grouped together, which diverged from JRL with an additional N-terminal disease response domain. The recombinant Ta-JA1 proteins agglutinated rabbit erythrocytes, and this hemagglutination activity was preferentially inhibited by mannose. The Ta-JA1 protein was able to inhibit E. coli cell growth. Overexpression of Ta-JA1 in transgenic tobacco plants increased their resistance to infection by tobacco bacterial, fungal and viral pathogens. Our results suggest that Ta-JA1 belongs to a mannose-specific lectin, which may confer a basal but broad-spectrum resistance to plant pathogens. Ta-JA1 and its homologues in maize, rice, sorghum and creeping bentgrass may represent a new type of monocot lectin with a modular structure and diversity of physiological functions in biotic and abiotic stress responses.
19959288	The use of biocovers is a promising strategy toward mitigating CH(4) emission from smaller and/or older landfills. In this study, a filter bed material consisting of a mixture of earthworm cast and rice paddy soil in a biocover was evaluated. Although the CH(4) oxidation rate of the enriched paddy soil was 4.9 microg g-dry soil(-1) h(-1), it was enhanced to 25.1 microg g-dry soil(-1) h(-1) by adding an earthworm cast with a 3:7 ratio of earthworm cast:soil (wet weight). CO(2) was found as the final oxidation product of CH(4), and the mole ratio of CO(2) production to CH(4) consumption was 0.27. At a moisture content range of 15-40% and a temperature range of 20-40 degrees C, the CH(4) oxidation rates of the enriched mixture were more than 57% of the maximum rate obtained at 25% moisture content and 25 degrees C. By denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis employing primers for the universal bacterial 16S rRNA gene, and terminal-restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis using primers for the pmoA gene, the bacterial and methanotrophic communities in the enriched mixture were mainly originate from paddy soil and earthworm cast, respectively. Both type I (mainly Methylocaldum) and type II methanotrophs (mainly Methylocystis) played important roles in CH(4) oxidation in the enriched mixture.
19959608	Modern rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars, especially the newly bred 'super' rice, have numerous spikelets on a panicle with a large yield capacity. However, these cultivars often fail to achieve their high yield potential due to poor grain-filling of later-flowering inferior spikelets (in contrast to the earlier-flowering superior spikelets). Conventional thinking to explain the poor grain-filling is the consequence of carbon limitation. Recent studies, however, have shown that carbohydrate supply should not be the major problem because they have adequate sucrose at their initial grain-filling stage. The low activities of key enzymes in carbon metabolism may contribute to the poor grain-filling. Proper field practices, such as moderate soil drying during mid- and late grain-filling stages, could solve some problems in poor grain-filling. Further studies are needed by molecular approaches to investigate the signal transport, the hormonal action, the gene expressions, and the biochemical processes in inferior spikelets.
19960476	The exact knowledge of the qualitative and quantitative protein components of rice bran is an essential aspect to be considered for a better understanding of the functional properties of this resource. Aim of the present investigation was to extract the largest number of rice bran proteins and to obtain their qualitative characterization. For this purpose, three different extraction protocols have been applied either on full-fat or on defatted rice bran. Likewise, to identify the highest number of proteins, MS data collected from 1-DE, 2-DE and gel-free procedures have been combined. These approaches allowed to unambiguously identify 43 proteins that were classified as signalling/regulation proteins (30%), proteins with enzymatic activity (30%), storage proteins (30%), transfer (5%) and structural (5%) proteins. The fact that all extraction and identification procedures have been performed in triplicate with an excellent reproducibility provides a rationale for considering the platform of proteins shown in this study as the potential proteome profile of rice bran. It also represents a source of information to evaluate better the qualities of rice bran as food resource.
19960488	Anxiety disorders represent the single largest mental health problem in the United States [Greenberg et al., 1999. J Clin Psychiatry 60:427-435; Rice and Miller, 1998. Br J Psychiatry 173:4-9]. However most individuals with anxiety disorders never seek treatment [Henderson et al., 2002. Can J Psychiatry 47:819-824; Mojtabai et al., 2002. Arch Gen Psychiatry 59:77-84; Roness et al., 2005. Acta Psychiatr Scand 111:51-58]. Deficits in the ability to recognize anxiety disorders and beliefs about them, (i.e., "mental health literacy") may contribute to low levels of help seeking. Survey data assessing mental health literacy for multiple anxiety disorders and for depression were collected from 284 undergraduate students enrolled in psychology courses at a public university in the United States. Specifically, respondents were presented with vignettes portraying individuals experiencing various forms of mental illness and were asked to label the disorder, its cause and whether or not they would recommend treatment. Findings showed that social phobia and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) were associated with recognition rates that were generally high and similar to depression (approximately 80%). In contrast, less than half of the respondents labeled panic disorder or generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) correctly. Symptoms of OCD were attributed to mental illness by approximately 50% of respondents, but such attributions were rare for the other anxiety disorders studied (<12%). Finally, data on help-seeking recommendations suggested that such recommendations are far from universal and varied between different anxiety disorders and according to perceptions of the causes of symptoms. Given that the current sample was well-educated young adults, mental health literacy of the general public may be even lower.
19960490	Fumonisin mycotoxins which are hazardous to humans and animals were produced in a Fusarium verticillioides-infected solid rice culture. To decrease the possibility of the formation of artifacts, the fumonisins were analysed by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography/electrospray ionization time-of-flight (RP-HPLC/ESI-TOFMS) and ion trap mass spectrometry (RP-HPLC/ESI-ITMS) immediately after the extraction of the culture material, without any further sample clean-up. The fumonisin isomers were separated by using a flat gradient on a special, high-coverage C(18), narrow-bore HPLC column (YMC-Pack J'sphere ODS H80) suggested for the separation of structural isomers by the manufacturer. Exact mass measurements (TOFMS) of the protonated molecules and extraction of the ion chromatogram corresponding to the empirical formula (C(34)H(59)NO(15)) of FB(1) toxins led to the identification of 29 peaks and shoulders, including those of FB(1). The FB(1) toxin and 28 of its isomers were also detected by ITMS after separation with RP-HPLC. The characteristic m/z values of the product ions, including the backbones obtained by ITMS(2), undoubtedly indicated the structures of the FB(1) isomers for 28 peaks and shoulders. In the MS(2) spectra of the protonated molecules of the FB(1) isomers, with some exceptions, 15 characteristic product ions including the hydrocarbon backbone at m/z 299 were observed. The abundance ratio of the cation at m/z 299 ranged up to 5.8%. The relative quantities of the isomers found in the sample extract were expressed as percentages of the FB(1) content (0.001-0.579%). The total amount of the 28 FB(1) isomers was 2.803% of the quantity of FB(1) that is important from the aspect of food and feed safety.
19961604	High density genetic maps of plants have, nearly without exception, made use of marker datasets containing missing or questionable genotype calls derived from a variety of genic and non-genic or anonymous markers, and been presented as a single linear order of genetic loci for each linkage group. The consequences of missing or erroneous data include falsely separated markers, expansion of cM distances and incorrect marker order. These imperfections are amplified in consensus maps and problematic when fine resolution is critical including comparative genome analyses and map-based cloning. Here we provide a new paradigm, a high-density consensus genetic map of barley based only on complete and error-free datasets and genic markers, represented accurately by graphs and approximately by a best-fit linear order, and supported by a readily available SNP genotyping resource. Approximately 22,000 SNPs were identified from barley ESTs and sequenced amplicons; 4,596 of them were tested for performance in three pilot phase Illumina GoldenGate assays. Data from three barley doubled haploid mapping populations supported the production of an initial consensus map. Over 200 germplasm selections, principally European and US breeding material, were used to estimate minor allele frequency (MAF) for each SNP. We selected 3,072 of these tested SNPs based on technical performance, map location, MAF and biological interest to fill two 1536-SNP "production" assays (BOPA1 and BOPA2), which were made available to the barley genetics community. Data were added using BOPA1 from a fourth mapping population to yield a consensus map containing 2,943 SNP loci in 975 marker bins covering a genetic distance of 1099 cM. The unprecedented density of genic markers and marker bins enabled a high resolution comparison of the genomes of barley and rice. Low recombination in pericentric regions is evident from bins containing many more than the average number of markers, meaning that a large number of genes are recombinationally locked into the genetic centromeric regions of several barley chromosomes. Examination of US breeding germplasm illustrated the usefulness of BOPA1 and BOPA2 in that they provide excellent marker density and sensitivity for detection of minor alleles in this genetically narrow material.
19961697	We used geographic information systems to characterize the dynamic change in spatial distribution of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome (HFRS) in Beijing, People's Republic of China. The seasonal variation in its incidence was observed by creating an epidemic curve. HFRS was associated with developed land, orchards, and rice paddies.
19962904	Three types of culture experiments using paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.) were performed to examine root-uptake of (14)C in the form of acetic acid: double pot experiment (hydroponics), wet culture experiment (submerged sand medium), and chamber experiment (hydroponics and submerged sand medium). The (14)C radioactivity in the plant, mediums, and atmospheric carbon dioxide ((14)CO(2)) in the chamber were determined, and the distribution of (14)C in the plant was visualized using autoradiography. In the double pot experiment, the shoot of the plant and the lower root which was soaked in the culture solution had (14)C radioactivity, but the upper root which did not have contact with the solution had none. There were also (14)C radioactivity in the grains and roots in the wet culture experiment. Results of the chamber experiment showed that (14)CO(2) gas was released from the culture solution in both types of cultures. Results indicated that the (14)C-acetic acid absorbed by rice plant through its root would be very small. Most of the (14)C-acetic acid was transformed into gaseous forms either in the culture solution or rhizosphere. A relatively longer time would be needed to assimilate (14)C derived from acetic acid to grain parts after it was once absorbed by the shoot through the root. Availability of (14)C for the plant in sand culture was considered to be decreased compared with that for the plant in the hydroponics experiment. It was suggested that rice plant absorbed and assimilated (14)C through the plant roots not because of uptake of (14)C-acetic acid but because of uptake of (14)C in gaseous forms such as (14)CO(2).
19964262	High performance computing is required to make feasible simulations of whole organ models of the heart with biophysically detailed cellular models in a clinical setting. Increasing model detail by simulating electrophysiology and mechanical models increases computation demands. We present scaling results of an electro - mechanical cardiac model of two ventricles and compare them to our previously published results using an electrophysiological model only. The anatomical data-set was given by both ventricles of the Visible Female data-set in a 0.2 mm resolution. Fiber orientation was included. Data decomposition for the distribution onto the distributed memory system was carried out by orthogonal recursive bisection. Load weight ratios for non-tissue vs. tissue elements used in the data decomposition were 1:1, 1:2, 1:5, 1:10, 1:25, 1:38.85, 1:50 and 1:100. The ten Tusscher et al. (2004) electrophysiological cell model was used and the Rice et al. (1999) model for the computation of the calcium transient dependent force. Scaling results for 512, 1024, 2048, 4096, 8192 and 16,384 processors were obtained for 1 ms simulation time. The simulations were carried out on an IBM Blue Gene/L supercomputer. The results show linear scaling from 512 to 16,384 processors with speedup factors between 1.82 and 2.14 between partitions. The most optimal load ratio was 1:25 for on all partitions. However, a shift towards load ratios with higher weight for the tissue elements can be recognized as can be expected when adding computational complexity to the model while keeping the same communication setup. This work demonstrates that it is potentially possible to run simulations of 0.5 s using the presented electro-mechanical cardiac model within 1.5 hours.
19965340	The Asia-Pacific region was on track to achieve the Millennium Development Goal of halving the prevalence of extreme poverty by 2015, but recent dramatic rises in the price of rice and other staples have pushed millions of people back into hunger and poverty. This indicates that the region's food supply system is more fragile and imbalanced than what was previously believed. Proximate causes of the rise in staple prices can be found in market forces such as export restrictions and rising energy prices but the ultimate causes are policies that have led to under-investment in agricultural research and emergency mitigation. Large numbers of people in the Asia-Pacific were already undernourished prior to the recent price rises, relying on monotonous diets dominated by a few staples. Pushed into reducing their dietary diversity even further, many more millions are now suffering from hunger and deteriorating health. The most fundamental food crisis in the Asia-Pacific is one of poor diets, and this affects the obese just as much as the undernourished. The solution lies in a food system that focuses on producing balanced diets, developing safe production practices, increasing food supplies by reducing losses, and investing in the research that make it all happen. Improving food systems is a fundamental community expectation and can be a matter of government survival, but if the urgency to improve food supplies overrides improving diets, the long-term impact on national health will be severe. Proactive policies, regional responses, and more integrated scientific approaches are needed.
19965875	Expression in Xenopus oocytes and electrophysiology was used to test for transport activity of the five sucrose transporter (SUT) homologs from rice. Expression of OsSUT1 and OsSUT5 resulted in sucrose-dependent currents that were analyzed by two-electrode voltage clamping. We examined the transport kinetics, substrate specificity and pH dependence of sucrose transport and K(0.5) for sucrose. OsSUT1 showed similar features to those of other type II SUTs from monocots examined previously, with a K(0.5) value of 7.50 mM at pH 5.6. In contrast, OsSUT5 had a higher substrate affinity (K(0.5) = 2.32 mM at pH 5.6), less substrate specificity and less pH dependence compared with all type II SUTs tested to date. Regulation of the rice SUTs, as well as ZmSUT1 from maize and HvSUT1 from barley, by reduced (GSH) and oxidized (GSSG) forms of glutathione was tested. GSSG and GSH were found to have no significant effect on the activity of sucrose transporters when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. In conclusion, differences in transport activity between OsSUT1 and OsSUT5 indicate that type II SUTs have a range of transport activities that are tuned to their function in the plant.
19965904	Bamboo (Phyllostachys praecox) is one of the largest members of the grass family Poaceae, and is one of the most economically important crops in Asia. However, complete knowledge of bamboo development and its molecular mechanisms is still lacking. In the present study, the differences in anatomical structure among rhizome buds, rhizome shoots, and bamboo shoots were compared, and several genes related to the development of the bamboo rhizome bud were identified. The rice cross-species microarray hybridization showed a total of 318 up-regulated and 339 down-regulated genes, including those involved in regulation and signalling, metabolism, and stress, and also cell wall-related genes, in the bamboo rhizome buds versus the leaves. By referring to the functional dissection of the homologous genes from Arabidopsis and rice, the putative functions of the 52 up-regulated genes in the bamboo rhizome bud were described. Six genes related to the development of the bamboo rhizome bud were further cloned and sequenced. These show 66-90% nucleotide identity and 68-98% amino acid identity with the homologous rice genes. The expression patterns of these genes revealed significant differences in rhizome shoots, rhizome buds, bamboo shoots, leaves, and young florets. Furthermore, in situ hybridization showed that the PpRLK1 gene is expressed in the procambium and is closely related to meristem development of bamboo shoots. The PpHB1 gene is expressed at the tips of bamboo shoots and procambium, and is closely related to rhizome bud formation and procambial development. To our knowledge, this is the first report that uses rice cross-species hybridization to identify genes related to bamboo rhizome bud development, and thereby contributes to the further understanding of the molecular mechanism involved in bamboo rhizome bud development.
19965963	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) play a major role in plant defense against pathogens, but evidence for their role in defense against insects is still preliminary and inconsistent. In this study, we examined the potential role of ROS in defense of wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rice (Oryza sativa) against Hessian fly (Mayetiola destructor) larvae. Rapid and prolonged accumulation of hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) was detected in wheat plants at the attack site during incompatible interactions. Increased accumulation of both H(2)O(2) and superoxide was detected in rice plants during nonhost interactions with the larvae. No increase in accumulation of either H(2)O(2) or superoxide was observed in wheat plants during compatible interactions. A global analysis revealed changes in the abundances of 250 wheat transcripts and 320 rice transcripts encoding proteins potentially involved in ROS homeostasis. A large number of transcripts encoded class III peroxidases that increased in abundance during both incompatible and nonhost interactions, whereas the levels of these transcripts decreased in susceptible wheat during compatible interactions. The higher levels of class III peroxidase transcripts were associated with elevated enzymatic activity of peroxidases at the attack site in plants during incompatible and nonhost interactions. Overall, our data indicate that class III peroxidases may play a role in ROS generation in resistant wheat and nonhost rice plants during response to Hessian fly attacks.
19966000	A Gram-positive bacterium, designated strain CBMB205(T), was isolated from the rhizosphere soil of traditionally cultivated, field-grown rice. Cells were strictly aerobic, motile, rod-shaped and formed endospores. The best growth was achieved at 30°C and pH 7.0 in ammonium mineral salts (AMS) medium containing 600 mM methanol. A comparative 16S rRNA gene sequence-based phylogenetic analysis placed strain CBMB205(T) in a clade with the species Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, Bacillus vallismortis, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus atrophaeus, Bacillus mojavensis and Bacillus licheniformis and revealed pairwise similarities ranging from 98.2 to 99.2 %. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments revealed a low level (<36 %) of DNA-DNA relatedness between strain CBMB205(T) and its closest relatives. The major components of the fatty acid profile were C₁₅:₀ anteiso, C₁₅:₀ iso, C₁₆:₀ iso and C₁₇:₀ anteiso. The diagnostic diamino acid of the cell wall was meso-diaminopimelic acid. The G+C content of the genomic DNA was 45.0 mol%. The lipids present in strain CBMB205(T) were diphosphatidylglycerol, phosphatidylglycerol, a minor amount of phosphatidylcholine and two unknown phospholipids. The predominant respiratory quinone was MK-7. Studies of DNA-DNA relatedness, morphological, physiological and chemotaxonomic analyses and phylogenetic data based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing enabled strain CBMB205(T) to be described as representing a novel species of the genus Bacillus, for which the name Bacillus methylotrophicus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is CBMB205(T) (=KACC 13105(T)=NCCB 100236(T)).
19966307	Although the timing and extent of a whole-genome duplication occurring in the common lineage of most modern cereals are clear, the existence or extent of more ancient genome duplications in cereals and perhaps other monocots has been hinted at, but remain unclear. We present evidence of additional duplication blocks of deeper hierarchy than the pancereal rho (rho) duplication, covering at least 20% of the cereal transcriptome. These more ancient duplicated regions, herein called sigma, are evident in both intragenomic and intergenomic analyses of rice and sorghum. Resolution of such ancient duplication events improves the understanding of the early evolutionary history of monocots and the origins and expansions of gene families. Comparisons of syntenic blocks reveal clear structural similarities in putatively homologous regions of monocots (rice) and eudicots (grapevine). Although the exact timing of the sigma-duplication(s) is unclear because of uncertainties of the molecular clock assumption, our data suggest that it occurred early in the monocot lineage after its divergence from the eudicot clade.
19966496	Agriculturally important grasses contain numerous diazotrophic bacteria, the interactions of which are speculated to have some other benefits to the host plants. In this study, we analyzed the effects of a bacterial endophyte, Azospirillum sp. B510, on disease resistance in host rice plants. Rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare) were inoculated with B510 exhibited enhanced resistance against diseases caused by the virulent rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and by the virulent bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae. In the rice plants, neither salicylic acid (SA) accumulation nor expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes was induced by interaction with this bacterium, except for slight induction of PBZ1. These results indicate the possibility that strain B510 is able to induce disease resistance in rice by activating a novel type of resistance mechanism independent of SA-mediated defense signaling.
19966497	The possibility of using recombinant human lactoferrin from rice (rhLF) makes it necessary to study its differences from the protein of milk. In this work, the binding of different iron-saturated forms of rhLF to Caco-2 cells was studied. Iron-saturated rhLF bound in higher proportion than the apo-form, but, the data obtained for specific binding were not compatible with receptor-mediated binding. Competition assays showed the same binding capacity for human milk lactoferrin as for rhLF to Caco-2 cells. Another basic protein of milk, lactoperoxidase, was found to compete with rhLF for binding to Caco-2 cell membranes, suggesting an electrostatic interaction. The transport of iron ((59)Fe) bound to rhLF and to citrate and the transport of rhLF ((125)I-labeled) were studied on Caco-2 monolayers. Transport of iron was found to be significantly greater when bound to citrate than to rhLF. The amount of intact lactoferrin that traversed the Caco-2 monolayers was very low, suggesting degradation of it across these cells.
19967400	Studies on hybridization, inheritance, and population genetics of brown planthoppers that infest rice and weeds were undertaken using starch gel electrophoresis to determine whether the weed-infesting population represents a biological race or a species. F(1) and F(2) generations were produced by crosses between parental insects from the two populations with little indication of hybrid sterility. Gpi, Mdh, and Idh loci were inherited in a simple Mendelian fashion in families of two sympatric populations. Sixteen populations of Nilaparvata spp. from eight locations were collected. The Mdh, Idh, Pgm, Gpi, 6Pgd, and Acp loci were polymorphic. The N. lugens of rice with high esterase activity were clustered into a group and characterized by the presence of alleles Gpi (110) and Gpi (120), whereas N. lugens from weeds with low esterase activity were clustered into another group and characterized by Gpi (100) and Gpi (90) . There was a lack of heterozygotes between the common alleles of the two populations. This means that the two groups of individuals belong to different gene pools.
19968098	In order to examine the effects of management regime, such as nitrogen application and plowing method, on soil respiration from farmland, the static opaque chamber-gas chromatograph method was used to measure soil CO2 fluxes in situ. The field measurement was carried out for 5 growing seasons, which were the 2002-2003 wheat, 2003 maize and soybean, 2003-2004 wheat, 2004 maize and 2004-2005 wheat seasons. Our results showed that soil respiration increased in fertilizer-applied treatments compared with no fertilizer treatment after 3 times of fertilizer application on 9 November 2002, 14 February and 26 March 2003. And the most obvious increase appeared following the third fertilizer application. No significant difference in soil respiration was found among several fertilizer application treatments. The effect of plowing depth on soil respiration was contingent on preceding cropping practice. Over the 2003-2004 wheat-growing seasons (its preceding cropping practice was rice paddy), mean soil respiration rates were not significant different (p > 0.05) between no plowing treatment and shallow plowing treatment. The shallow plowing treatment CT2 led to higher soil CO2 losses compared with no plowing treatment of NT2 in the 2004 maize-growing season, however, the significant higher (p < 0.05) soil respiration rates occurred with no plowing treatment of NT3 in the following 2004-2005 wheat-growing season. Intensive plowing (25 cm depth), compared with no plowing practice (NT4), increased soil respiration significantly during the 2004-2005 wheat-growing season. Regression analysis showed that the exponential function could be employed to fit the relationship between soil respiration and temperature. The exponential relationship yielded the Q10 values which were varied from 1.26 to 3.60, with a mean value of 2.08. To evaluate the effect of temperature on soil respiration, the CO2 emission fluxes were normalized for each treatment and each crop growing season. Plotting the normalized soil respiration against the temperature, the exponential relationship between these two parameters becomes obvious. The temperature coefficient Q10 was then evaluated as 1.66 according to the exponential relationship. Further investigation indicated that soil respiration could be well simulated by an empirical model in which the effects of both soil temperature and moisture on soil respiration were considered. This model described 54% variances of the measured 463 soil respiration rates, with a R2 of 0.54 and a p value less than 0.0001.
19968553	We investigated responses of rice plant to three rare sugars, d-altrose, d-sorbose, and d-allose, due to establishment of mass production methods for these rare sugars. Root growth and shoot growth were significantly inhibited by d-allose but not by the other rare sugars. A large-scale gene expression analysis using a rice microarray revealed that d-allose treatment causes a high upregulation of many defense-related, pathogenesis-related (PR) protein genes in rice. The PR protein genes were not upregulated by other rare sugars. Furthermore, d-allose treatment of rice plants conferred limited resistance of the rice against the pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae but the other tested sugars did not. These results indicate that d-allose has a growth inhibitory effect but might prove to be a candidate elicitor for reducing disease development in rice.
19969519	Copper (Cu) is an important mineral nutrient found in chloroplasts as a cofactor associated with plastocyanin and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (Cu/ZnSOD). Superoxide dismutases are metallo-enzymes found in most oxygenic organisms with proposed roles in reducing oxidative stress. Several recent studies in Arabidopsis have shown that microRNAs and a SQUAMOSA promoter binding protein-like7 (SPL7) transcription factor function to down-regulate the expression of many Cu-proteins, including Cu/ZnSOD in both plastids and the cytosol, during growth on low Cu. Plants contain the Cu Chaperone for SOD (CCS) that delivers Cu to Cu/ZnSODs, and, in Arabidopsis, both cytosolic and plastidic CCS versions are encoded by one gene. In this study, we demonstrate that Arabidopsis CCS transcript levels are regulated by Cu, mediated by microRNA 398 that was not previously predicted to target CCS. The microRNA target site is conserved in CCS of Oryza sativa. The data suggest that Cu-regulated microRNAs may have more mRNA targets than was previously predicted. A CCS null mutant has no measurable SOD activity in the chloroplast and cytosol, indicating an absolute requirement for CCS. When the CCS null mutant was grown on high Cu media, it lacked both Fe superoxide dismutase (FeSOD) and Cu/ZnSOD activity. However, this did not lead to a visual phenotype and no photosynthetic deficiencies were detected, even after high light stress. These results indicate that Cu/ZnSOD is not a pivotal component of the photosynthetic anti-oxidant system during growth in laboratory conditions.
19994891	An increasing number of severe food borne intoxications are caused by a highly stable depsipeptide, named cereulide, which is produced by emetic Bacillus cereus strains. As cereulide poses a health risk to humans, the development of an appropriate method for the analysis of this toxin is mandatory. Therefore, the reference material of cereulide as well as its (13)C(6)-isotopologue was prepared by means of a biosynthetic approach using a B. cereus culture, followed by a rapid but efficient downstream purification. After structure confirmation by means of liquid chromatography (LC)-time-of-flight mass spectrometry, LC-tandem mass spectrometry, and one-/two-dimensional NMR spectroscopy, a stable isotope dilution analysis (SIDA) was developed for the quantification of cereulide in foods using the (13)C(6)-cereulide as the internal standard. Validation experiments were performed, and the data were compared to the quantitative analysis using the structurally related valinomycin instead of the (13)C(6)-cereulide as an internal standard. Trueness, repeatability, and reproducibility expressed as relative standard deviation showed values <10 or <8% for valinomycin or <8% for (13)C(6)-cereulide, respectively. Furthermore, the MS response of the valinomycin was found to be significantly influenced by the food matrix, thus leading to rather low recovery rates of 91% from boiled rice and 80% from boiled rice supplemented with 10% sunflower oil. In comparison, the use of (13)C(6)-cereulide as an internal standard gave good recovery rates of 104 and 111% from both matrices, thus demonstrating the robustness and accuracy of the developed SIDA.
19995473	Nutritional recommendations call for balanced, diversified consumption of starchy foods and increased whole-grain food intake. Their efficiency may depend on sociodemographic and socioeconomic factors, for which little information is available. The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between sociodemographic and socioeconomic characteristics and starchy food consumption in a large general population of French adults. Dietary intake was assessed using at least six 24-h dietary records collected, during a 2-year period, from 4574 men and women aged 45-60 years who participated in the Supplémentation en VItamines Minéraux et AntioXydants cohort study in 1995-7. Compliance with the recommendation (> or = 3 and < 6 servings/d), non-consumption of whole-grain products, variety and daily cost were compared across sociodemographic and socioeconomic categories using logistic regression and covariance analyses. About 55 % of subjects complied with the starchy food recommendation, with little variation across sociodemographic characteristics. Consumption of whole-grain products was less likely in men (P = 0.001), in subjects with a lower education level (P-trend = 0.01) and in those belonging to intermediate occupational categories (P = 0.02). The variety of starchy food intake increased with education level (P-trend = 0.0002) and was lowest for manual workers (P = 0.03). The proportion of daily food cost spent on starchy foods decreased with occupational category (P < 0.0001), and was higher in rural areas (P = 0.0004). The starchy food budget spent on potatoes decreased with the educational level (P-trend = 0.007), whereas it increased for rice and unsweetened breakfast cereals (P-trend = 0.001 for both). Public recommendations concerning starchy food variety and whole-grain intake should specifically target subjects with a lower education level and/or occupational category.
19996156	The objective of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of traditional herbal medicines (Kampo) on the symptoms of Yusho. Yusho is a mass food poisoning that was caused by ingestion of rice oil contaminated with dioxins and related organochlorines in 1968. Patients with Yusho suffer from skin symptoms (acneform eruptions, liability to suppuration and pigmentation), respiratory symptoms (cough and expectoration of sputum), neurological symptoms (numbness and paresthesia of extremities), arthralgia and general fatigue, and no effective treatment has yet been developed. In this clinical trial, four Kampo formulae (Bakumondo-to, Keigai-rengyo-to, Gosha-jinki-gan and Hochu-ekki-to) were administered to four representative Yusho symptoms (respiratory, skin, neurological symptoms and general fatigue), respectively. Twenty-seven Yusho patients were enrolled and two formulae were administered to each patient for half-a-year each. The effectiveness of Kampo formulae was estimated by changes in the intensity of symptoms measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS) of 100 mm recorded at baseline and after administration of each formula. The influence of Kampo formulae on patients' quality of life (QOL) was also assessed by the SF-36 (NBS). Twenty-five patients completed the treatment. Bakumondo-to significantly improved respiratory symptoms as well as patients' QOL in the context of vitality, compared with other formulae. In contrast, Hochu-ekki-to impaired patients' QOL in the context of physical functioning and vitality, compared with other formulae. This study demonstrated for the first time that a Kampo formula Bakumondo-to is useful for treating respiratory symptoms caused by dioxins.
19996432	To test for the effects of host accessibility on blood-feeding behavior, we assessed degrees of anthropophily of the malaria mosquito Anopheles gambiae at two stages of the behavioral sequence of host foraging, in a rice growing area near Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso, where humans are not readily accessible because of years of generalized use of (mostly non-impregnated) bed nets. First, patterns of host selection were assessed by the identification of the blood meal origin of indoor-resting samples. Inherent host preferences were then determined by two odor-baited entry traps, set side by side in a choice arrangement, releasing either human or calf odor. The proportion of feeds taken on humans was around 40%, whereas 88% of trapped An. gambiae "chose" the human-baited trap, indicating a zoophilic pattern of host selection despite a stronger trap entry response with human odor. This paradox can be interpreted as the evolution of a plastic strategy of feeding behavior in this field population of An. gambiae because of the greater accessibility of readily available, although less-preferred, hosts.
19996633	Epidemiological evidence exists for a causative role of inappropriate diets in the development and clinical outcome of thrombotic diseases. Our previous studies have shown that some fruits and vegetables have antithrombotic activity. As rice is a principal ingredient of everyday food in Japan, the aim of the present study was to determine rice varieties with antithrombotic effect. Western-style high-fat diet containing flour prepared from whole-grain rice of different varieties was fed to atherosclerosis-prone (apolipoprotein E- and low density lipoprotein receptor-deficient) mice for 3 months. A laser-induced carotid-artery thrombosis model was used. None of the five tested rice varieties showed an antithrombotic effect. The effect of HYJA-Ri1, HYJA-Ri2, HYJA-Ri3 and HYJA-Ri5 rice on experimental thrombus formation did not differ significantly from the controls. However, HYJA-Ri4 rice significantly enhanced the thrombotic reaction (p = 0.0078), thus having a prothrombotic effect. Our findings suggest that HYJA-Ri4 rice should not be included in an antithrombotic diet.
19996697	With an aim to evaluate dye decolorization by white rot fungus on natural living conditions, reproducing by solidstate fermentation, the process of triphenylmethane dyes decolorization using the white rot fungus P. ostreatus BP, cultivated on rice straw solid-state medium, has been demonstrated. Three typical dyes, including malachite green, bromophenol blue, and crystal violet, were almost completely decolorized by the fungus after 9 days of incubation. During the process of dye decolorization, the activities of enzyme secreted by the fungus, and the contents of soluble components, such as phenolic compounds, protein, and sugar, changed regularly. The fungus could produce ligninolytic, cellulolytic, and hemicellulolytic enzymes and laccase was the most dominant enzyme in solid-state medium. Laccase, laccase isoenzyme, and the laccase mediator could explain the decolorization of malachite green, bromophenol blue, and crystal violet by the fungus in solid medium, respectively. It is worth noting that the presence of the water-soluble phenolic compounds could stimulate the growth of fungus, enhance the production of laccase, and accelerate dye decolorization.
19997500	The appropriate development of conidia and appressoria is critical in the disease cycle of many fungal pathogens, including Magnaporthe oryzae. A total of eight genes (MoHOX1 to MoHOX8) encoding putative homeobox transcription factors (TFs) were identified from the M. oryzae genome. Knockout mutants for each MoHOX gene were obtained via homology-dependent gene replacement. Two mutants, DeltaMohox3 and DeltaMohox5, exhibited no difference to wild-type in growth, conidiation, conidium size, conidial germination, appressorium formation, and pathogenicity. However, the DeltaMohox1 showed a dramatic reduction in hyphal growth and increase in melanin pigmentation, compared to those in wild-type. DeltaMohox4 and DeltaMohox6 showed significantly reduced conidium size and hyphal growth, respectively. DeltaMohox8 formed normal appressoria, but failed in pathogenicity, probably due to defects in the development of penetration peg and invasive growth. It is most notable that asexual reproduction was completely abolished in DeltaMohox2, in which no conidia formed. DeltaMohox2 was still pathogenic through hypha-driven appressoria in a manner similar to that of the wild-type. However, DeltaMohox7 was unable to form appressoria either on conidial germ tubes, or at hyphal tips, being non-pathogenic. These factors indicate that M. oryzae is able to cause foliar disease via hyphal appressorium-mediated penetration, and MoHOX7 is mutually required to drive appressorium formation from hyphae and germ tubes. Transcriptional analyses suggest that the functioning of M. oryzae homeobox TFs is mediated through the regulation of gene expression and is affected by cAMP and Ca(2+) signaling and/or MAPK pathways. The divergent roles of this gene set may help reveal how the genome and regulatory pathways evolved within the rice blast pathogen and close relatives.
19998418	It is well known that Phellinus linteus has a variety of biological functions, such as antitumor and immunomodulating activities. In our previous studies, we developed a P. linteus grown on germinated brown rice (PBR) and found that organic solvent extracts of PBR possessed immunomodulating activity to regulate a balance of cytokine network in mice. The components of PBR are ergosterol peroxide, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and Beta-glucan. In this study, we demonstrate that an organic solvent extract of P. linteus grown on PBR induced apoptotic cell death through the induction of G(0)/G(1) arrest of cell cycle and the apoptosis via DNA fragmentation in human colon carcinoma HT-29 cells. Cell death induced by the extract of P. linteus grown on PBR was shown to be associated with the upregulation of p21(CIP1/WAF1), the downregulation of cyclin D1, anti-apoptotic protein, Bcl-2, the release of cytochrome c, and the activation of caspase-9, caspase-3 and caspase-8. This study suggests that the ethyl acetate extract of P. linteus grown on PBR induces apoptosis accompanied by cell cycle arrest at G(0)/G(1) phase and regulates apoptosis-regulatory proteins, which may be applicable to anticancer therapy.
19999966	Atmospheric particulate and polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) size distribution were measured at Jhu-Shan (a rural site) and Sin-Gang (a town site) in central Taiwan during the rice straw burning and non-burning periods. The concentrations of total PAHs accounting for a roughly 58% (34%) increment in the concentrations of total PAHs due to rice-straw burning. Combustion-related PAHs during burning periods were 1.54-2.57 times higher than those during non-burning periods. The mass median diameter (MMD) of 0.88-1.21 microm in the particulate phase suggested that rice-straw burning generated the increase in coarse particle number. Chemical mass balance (CMB) receptor model analyses showed that the primary pollution sources at the two sites were similar. However, rice-straw burning emission was specifically identified as a significant source of PAH during burning periods at the two sites. Open burning of rice straws was estimated to contribute approximately 6.3%-24.6% to total atmospheric PAHs at the two sites.
20000530	Rice consumption is a major source of cadmium and arsenic for the population of Asia. We investigated the effects of water management in rice paddy on levels of cadmium and arsenic in Japanese rice grains. Flooding increased arsenic concentrations in rice grains, whereas aerobic treatment increased the concentration of cadmium. Flooding for 3 weeks before and after heading was most effective in reducing grain cadmium concentrations, but this treatment increased the arsenic concentration considerably, whereas aerobic treatment during the same period was effective in reducing arsenic concentrations but increased the cadmium concentration markedly. Flooding treatment after heading was found to be more effective than flooding treatment before heading in reducing rice grain cadmium without a concomitant increase in total arsenic levels, although it increased inorganic arsenic levels. Concentrations of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) in grain were very low under aerobic conditions but increased under flooded conditions. DMA accounted for 3-52% of the total arsenic concentration in grain grown in soil with a lower arsenic concentration and 10-80% in soil with a higher arsenic concentration. A possible explanation for the accumulation of DMA in rice grains is that DMA translocates from shoots/roots to the grains more readily than does inorganic arsenic.
20000566	Human fecal fermentation profiles of maize, rice, and wheat bran and their dietary fiber fractions released by alkaline-hydrogen peroxide treatment (principally arabinoxylan) were obtained with the aim of identifying and characterizing fractions associated with high production of short chain fatty acids and a linear fermentation profile for possible application as a slowly fermentable dietary fiber. The alkali-soluble fraction from maize bran resulted in the highest short chain fatty acid production among all samples tested, and was linear over the 24 h fermentation period. Size-exclusion chromatography and (1)H NMR suggested that higher molecular weight and uniquely substituted arabinose side chains may contribute to these properties. Monosaccharide disappearance data suggest that maize and rice bran arabinoxylans are fermented by a debranching mechanism, while wheat bran arabinoxylans likely contain large unsubstituted xylose regions that are fermented preferentially, followed by poor fermentation of the remaining, highly branched oligosaccharides.
20002135	African and Asian populations of Fusarium spp. (Gibberella fujikuroi species complex) associated with Bakanae of rice (Oryzae sativa L.) were isolated from seeds and characterized with respect to ecology, phylogenetics, pathogenicity and mycotoxin production. Independent of the origin, Fusarium spp. were detected in the different rice seed samples with infection rate ranges that varied from 0.25% to 9%. Four Fusaria (F. andiyazi, F. fujikuroi, F. proliferatum and F. verticillioides) were found associated with Bakanae of rice. While three of the Fusaria were found in both African and Asian seed samples, F. fujikuroi was only detected in seed samples from Asia. Phylogenetic studies showed a broad genetic variation among the strains that were distributed into four different genetic clades. Pathogenicity tests showed that all strains reduced seed germination and possessed varying ability to cause symptoms of Bakanae on rice, some species (i.e. F. fujikuroi) being more pathogenic than others. The ability to produce fumonisins (FB(1) and FB(2)) and gibberellin A3 in vitro also differed according to the Fusarium species. While fumonisins were produced by most of the strains of F. verticillioides and F. proliferatum, gibberellin A3 was only produced by F. fujikuroi. Neither fumonisin nor gibberellin was synthesized by most of the strains of F. andiyazi. These findings provide new information on the variation within the G. fujikuroi species complex associated with rice seed and Bakanae disease.
20003164	Mutant analyses in different eudicotyledonous flowering plants demonstrated that SEPALLATA-like MADS-box genes are required for the specification of sepals, petals, stamens and carpels, and for floral determinacy, thus defining class E floral organ identity genes. SEP-like genes encode MADS-domain transcription factors and constitute an angiosperm-specific gene clade whose members show remarkably different degrees of redundancy and sub-functionalization within eudicots. To better understand the evolutionary dynamics of SEP-like genes throughout the angiosperms we have knocked down SEP-like genes of rice (Oryza sativa), a distant relative of eudicots within the flowering plants. Plants affected in both OsMADS7 and OsMADS8 show severe phenotypes including late flowering, homeotic changes of lodicules, stamens and carpels into palea/lemma-like organs, and a loss of floral determinacy. Simultaneous knockdown of the four rice SEP-like genes OsMADS1, OsMADS5, OsMADS7 and OsMADS8, leads to homeotic transformation of all floral organs except the lemma into leaf-like organs. This mimics the phenotype observed with the sep1 sep2 sep3 sep4 quadruple mutant of Arabidopsis. Detailed analyses of the spatial and temporal mRNA expression and protein interaction patterns corresponding to the different rice SEP-like genes show strong similarities, but also gene-specific differences. These findings reveal conservation of SEP-like genes in specifying floral determinacy and organ identities since the separation of eudicots and monocots about 150 million years ago. However, they indicate also monocot-specific neo- and sub-functionalization events and hence underscore the evolutionary dynamics of SEP-like genes. Moreover, our findings corroborate the view that the lodicules of grasses are homologous to eudicot petals.
20003165	Growth and development of a plant are controlled by programmed expression of suits of genes at the appropriate time, tissue and abundance. Although genomic resources have been developed rapidly in recent years in rice, a model plant for cereal genome research, data of gene expression profiling are still insufficient to relate the developmental processes to transcriptomes, leaving a large gap between the genome sequence and phenotype. In this study, we generated genome-wide expression data by hybridizing 190 Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Arrays with RNA from 39 tissues collected throughout the life cycle of the rice plant from two varieties, Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63. Analyses of the global transcriptomes revealed many interesting features of dynamic patterns of gene expression across the tissues and stages. In total, 38 793 probe sets were detected as expressed and 69% of the expressed transcripts showed significantly variable expression levels among tissues/organs. We found that similarity of transcriptomes among organs corresponded well to their developmental relatedness. About 5.2% of the expressed transcripts showed tissue-specific expression in one or both varieties and 22.7% of the transcripts exhibited constitutive expression including 19 genes with high and stable expression in all the tissues. This dataset provided a versatile resource for plant genomic research, which can be used for associating the transcriptomes to the developmental processes, understanding the regulatory network of these processes, tracing the expression profile of individual genes and identifying reference genes for quantitative expression analyses.
20003305	The role of gene duplication in the structural and functional evolution of genomes has been well documented. Analysis of complete rice (Oryza sativa) genome sequences suggested an ancient whole genome duplication, common to all the grasses, some 50-70 million years ago and a more conserved segmental duplication between the distal regions of the short arms of chromosomes 11 and 12, whose evolutionary history is controversial. We have carried out a comparative analysis of this duplication within the wild species of the genus Oryza, using a phylogenetic approach to specify its origin and evolutionary dynamics. Paralogous pairs were isolated for nine genes selected throughout the region in all Oryza genome types, as well as in two outgroup species, Leersia perrieri and Potamophila parviflora. All Oryza species display the same global evolutionary dynamics but some lineage-specific features appear towards the proximal end of the duplicated region. The same level of conservation is observed between the redundant copies of the tetraploid species Oryza minuta. The presence of orthologous duplicated blocks in the genome of the more distantly-related species, Brachypodium distachyon, strongly suggests that this duplication between chromosomes 11 and 12 was formed as part of the whole genome duplication common to all Poaceae. Our observations suggest that recurrent but heterogeneous concerted evolution throughout the Oryza genus and in related species has led specifically to the extremely high sequence conservation occurring in this region of more than 2 Mbp.
20003910	Beginning in 2003, highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 virus spread across Southeast Asia, causing unprecedented epidemics. Thailand was massively infected in 2004 and 2005 and continues today to experience sporadic outbreaks. While research findings suggest that the spread of HPAI H5N1 is influenced primarily by trade patterns, identifying the anthropogenic risk factors involved remains a challenge. In this study, we investigated which anthropogenic factors played a role in the risk of HPAI in Thailand using outbreak data from the "second wave" of the epidemic (3 July 2004 to 5 May 2005) in the country. We first performed a spatial analysis of the relative risk of HPAI H5N1 at the subdistrict level based on a hierarchical Bayesian model. We observed a strong spatial heterogeneity of the relative risk. We then tested a set of potential risk factors in a multivariable linear model. The results confirmed the role of free-grazing ducks and rice-cropping intensity but showed a weak association with fighting cock density. The results also revealed a set of anthropogenic factors significantly linked with the risk of HPAI. High risk was associated strongly with densely populated areas, short distances to a highway junction, and short distances to large cities. These findings highlight a new explanatory pattern for the risk of HPAI and indicate that, in addition to agro-environmental factors, anthropogenic factors play an important role in the spread of H5N1. To limit the spread of future outbreaks, efforts to control the movement of poultry products must be sustained.
20004461	This paper provides the first available information on the determination of the total mercury content in different Mediterranean calcareous soils by thermal decomposition, amalgamation and atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Fifty-three samples from five soil use groups (natural, dry land, greenhouse, irrigated and rice farming soils) were analysed. The results show that the levels of mercury in these soils were 9.4-1585mugkg(-1). Soil organic matter and the zinc equivalent index have been related to Hg content in soils, suggesting that Cu, Ni, Zn and Hg are of a similar origin. The background level (BL), geochemical baseline concentrations (GBC) and the reference value (RV) were established from natural soils. Calculations are according to the log-normal distribution criterion. The BL, GBC and RV values obtained were 25.1, 9.8-64.3, and 64.3mugkg(-1), respectively. The BL was similar to the baseline concentration in soils obtained at Admiralty Bay (Antarctica) (24.6mugkg(-1)) and a Spanish peat bog (Galicia) (22mugkg(-1)). These data show that rice farming soils (gleyic-calcaric Fluvisols, Fluvaquents), irrigated soils (calcaric Fluvisols, Xerofluvents) and some greenhouse soils (cumulic Antrosols) presented much higher levels, indicating contamination. Hg accumulation in these soils was associated with local anthropogenic sources.
20004497	In plants, it is well established that chloroplast is one of the early targgeted organelles to breakdown during leaves senescing. Here we applied a newly developed super-high-yield hybrid rice (Oryza sativa) LiangYouPeiJiu (LYPJ) and its parents lines to investigate changes in ultrastructure of chloroplasts, fatty acid composition of thylakoid membrane lipids and chlorophyll (Chl) a fluorescence transient in natural senescing leaves. We found that at full expansion of flag leaves in three lines, chloroplasts often showed oblong shapes with a typical membrane system of stroma and grana thylakoids, whereas their shapes had been changed from oblong to spherical during senescence. Our data showed that the initiation of senescence displayed accumulation of starch and an increase in the number and size of plastoglobuli with the damaged thylakoid membranes; subsequently, swollen thylakoid membranes in stroma and in grana with a significant increase in MDA content, and disorganization of thylakoid membrane system with significant changes in fatty acid composition of thylakoid membrane lipids were developed. Compared with its parents, the newly developed hybrid rice LYPJ had the highest capacity of carbohydrate transport from leaves (sources) to ears (sink), marked with the lowest accumulation of starch grains in the leaf chloroplasts, and the slowest senescing rate of chloroplast in overall leaf senescence process. Chl a fluorescence transients of three kinds of flag leaves were analyzed by so-called JIP-test. The results of analysis suggest that these findings inculding a high inherited activity of antioxidant enzymes and high photosynthetate transport to pretect chloroplast structure in the hybrid rice LYPJ have close relations to its super-high yield.
20005039	The feasibility of using a solid waste (rich in nitrogen) from the leather industry, after chromium extraction, as adsorbent for P and K, for possible utilization as NPK fertilizer was evaluated. The materials, with and without the addition of P and K, were characterized by chemical analyses, infrared spectroscopy, EDS (energy dispersive X-ray spectrometry) and SEM (scanning electronic microscopy). Langmuir and Freundlich equations were used for analyzing the experimental data, which showed a better fit to the Freundlich model, thus suggesting a multilayer adsorption process on the surface of the adsorbent. A preliminary test in greenhouse demonstrates that the P and K incorporation on the matrix rich in nitrogen (collagen) is a interesting alternative to use such material as NPK fertilizer. The application of N(collagen)PK formulations, as a source of nutrients for the growth of rice plants, showed promising agronomic results.
20005950	Neonicotinoid insecticides, such as imidacloprid, are selective agonists of insect nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) and are used extensively to control a variety of insect pest species. The brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens), an insect pest of rice crops throughout Asia, is an important target species for control with neonicotinoid insecticides such as imidacloprid. Studies with nAChRs purified from N. lugens have identified two [(3)H]imidacloprid binding sites with different affinities (K(d) = 3.5 +/- 0.6 pM and 1.5 +/- 0.2 nM). Co-immunoprecipitation studies with native preparations of N. lugens nAChRs, using subunit-selective antisera, have demonstrated the co-assembly of Nlalpha1, Nlalpha2 and Nlbeta1 subunits into one receptor complex and of Nlalpha3, Nlalpha8 and Nlbeta1 into another. Immunodepletion of Nlalpha1 or Nlalpha2 subunits resulted in the selective loss of the lower affinity imidacloprid binding site, whereas immunodepletion of Nlalpha3 or Nlalpha8 caused the selective loss of the high-affinity site. Immunodepletion of Nlbeta1 resulted in a complete absence of specific imidacloprid binding. In contrast, immunodepletion with antibodies selective for other N. lugens nAChR subunits (Nlalpha4, Nlalpha6, Nlalpha7 and Nlbeta2) had no significant effect on imidacloprid binding. Taken together, these data suggest that nAChRs containing Nlalpha1, Nlalpha2 and Nlbeta1 constitute the lower affinity binding site, whereas nAChRs containing Nlalpha3, Nlalpha8 and Nlbeta1 constitute the higher affinity binding site for imidacloprid in N. lugens.
20006438	This study aimed to produce an industrial applicable thermo-stable alpha-amylase from marine Bacillus amyloliquefaciens which isolated and selected according to its significant enzyme production. The effect of different pH values and temperatures on the bacterial growth and the enzyme production was estimated using an experimental statistical design; maximum amylase production and bacterial growth was obtained at pH 7.0 and 50 degrees C. Some biodegradable polyethylene rice starch plastic films (PERS-P) were manufactured using 0, 2.5, 5, 7.5 and 10% starch concentrations. The biodegradability (reduction in the plastic elongation%) was tested using the exposure to UV radiation at lambda(300-400 nm) (intensity of about 1000 W/m(2)) and the produced B. amyloliquefaciens thermo-stable alpha-amylase. A significant reduction in the elongation% of these biodegradable plastics was observed in both cases especially on testing the 10% PERS-P; they showed a reduction of 26% and 20%, respectively, compared to the untreated plastic films (180+/-5).
20007444	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades have been identified in various signaling pathways involved in plant development and stress responses. We identified a drought-hypersensitive mutant (drought-hypersensitive mutant1 [dsm1]) of a putative MAPK kinase kinase (MAPKKK) gene in rice (Oryza sativa). Two allelic dsm1 mutants were more sensitive than wild-type plants to drought stress at both seedling and panicle development stages. The dsm1 mutants lost water more rapidly than wild-type plants under drought stress, which was in agreement with the increased drought-sensitivity phenotype of the mutant plants. DSM1-RNA interference lines were also hypersensitive to drought stress. The predicted DSM1 protein belongs to a B3 subgroup of plant Raf-like MAPKKKs and was localized in the nucleus. By real-time PCR analysis, the DSM1 gene was induced by salt, drought, and abscisic acid, but not by cold. Microarray analysis revealed that two peroxidase (POX) genes, POX22.3 and POX8.1, were sharply down-regulated compared to wild type, suggesting that DSM1 may be involved in reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling. Peroxidase activity, electrolyte leakage, chlorophyll content, and 3,3'-diaminobenzidine staining revealed that the dsm1 mutant was more sensitive to oxidative stress due to an increase in ROS damage caused by the reduced POX activity. Overexpression of DSM1 in rice increased the tolerance to dehydration stress at the seedling stage. Together, these results suggest that DSM1 might be a novel MAPKKK functioning as an early signaling component in regulating responses to drought stress by regulating scavenging of ROS in rice.
20007447	Casein kinase II (CK2) is a protein kinase with an evolutionarily conserved function as a circadian clock component in several organisms, including the long-day plant Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The circadian clock component CIRCADIAN CLOCK ASSOCIATED1 (CCA1) is a CK2 target in Arabidopsis, where it influences photoperiodic flowering. In rice (Oryza sativa), a short-day plant, Heading date6 (Hd6) encodes a CK2alpha subunit that delays flowering time under long-day conditions. Here, we demonstrate that control of flowering time in rice by the Hd6 CK2alpha subunit requires a functional Hd1 gene (an Arabidopsis CONSTANS ortholog) and is independent of the circadian clock mechanism. Our findings from overexpressing the dominant-negative CK2 allele in rice support the independence of CK2 function from the circadian clock. This lack of control of the circadian clock by Hd6 CK2alpha might be due to the presence of glutamate in OsLHY (a CCA1 ortholog in rice) instead of the serine at the corresponding CK2 target site in CCA1. However, this glutamate is critical for the control of the OsPRR1 gene (a rice ortholog of the Arabidopsis TOC1/PRR1 gene) by OsLHY for regulation of the circadian clock. We also demonstrated that the other conserved CK2 target sites in OsLHY conferred robust rhythmic expression of OsLHY-LUC under diurnal conditions. These findings imply that the role of CK2 in flowering-time regulation in higher plants has diversified during evolution.
20008096	Although landscapes of several histone marks are now available for Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa, such profiles remain static and do not provide information about dynamic changes of plant epigenomes in response to developmental or environmental cues. Here, we analyzed the effects of light on four histone modifications (acetylation and trimethylation of lysines 9 and 27 on histone H3: H3K9ac, H3K9me3, H3K27ac, and H3K27me3, respectively). Our genome-wide profiling of H3K9ac and H3K27ac revealed that these modifications are nontransposable element gene-specific. By contrast, we found that H3K9me3 and H3K27me3 target nontransposable element genes, but also intergenic regions and transposable elements. Specific light conditions affected the number of modified regions as well as the overall correlation strength between the presence of specific modifications and transcription. Furthermore, we observed that acetylation marks not only ELONGATED HYPOCOTYL5 and HY5-HOMOLOG upon deetiolation, but also their downstream targets. We found that the activation of photosynthetic genes correlates with dynamic acetylation changes in response to light, while H3K27ac and H3K27me3 potentially contribute to light regulation of the gibberellin metabolism. Thus, this work provides a dynamic portrait of the variations in histone modifications in response to the plant's changing light environment and strengthens the concept that histone modifications represent an additional layer of control for light-regulated genes involved in photomorphogenesis.
20009022	In rice (Oryza sativa), brassinosteroids (BRs) induce cell elongation at the adaxial side of the lamina joint to promote leaf bending. We identified a rice mutant (ili1-D) showing an increased lamina inclination phenotype similar to that caused by BR treatment. The ili1-D mutant overexpresses an HLH protein homologous to Arabidopsis thaliana Paclobutrazol Resistance1 (PRE1) and the human Inhibitor of DNA binding proteins. Overexpression and RNA interference suppression of ILI1 increase and reduce, respectively, rice laminar inclination, confirming a positive role of ILI1 in leaf bending. ILI1 and PRE1 interact with basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein IBH1 (ILI1 binding bHLH), whose overexpression causes erect leaf in rice and dwarfism in Arabidopsis. Overexpression of ILI1 or PRE1 increases cell elongation and suppresses dwarf phenotypes caused by overexpression of IBH1 in Arabidopsis. Thus, ILI1 and PRE1 may inactivate inhibitory bHLH transcription factors through heterodimerization. BR increases the RNA levels of ILI1 and PRE1 but represses IBH1 through the transcription factor BZR1. The spatial and temporal expression patterns support roles of ILI1 in laminar joint bending and PRE1/At IBH1 in the transition from growth of young organs to growth arrest. These results demonstrate a conserved mechanism of BR regulation of plant development through a pair of antagonizing HLH/bHLH transcription factors that act downstream of BZR1 in Arabidopsis and rice.
20009505
20011147	Vaccination is the most effective technique suggested now days for allergy treatment. Recombinant-based approaches are mostly focused on genetic modification of allergens to produce molecules with reduced allergenic activity and conserved antigenicity. The molecules developed for vaccination in allergy possess significantly reduced allergenicity in terms of IgE binding, and therefore will not lead to anaphylactic reactions upon injection. This approach is probably feasible with every peptide allergen with known amino acid sequence. In this study an in silico approach was used to investigate allergenic protein sequences. Motif analysis of these sequences reveals the allergenic epitopes in the amino acid sequences. Physicochemical analysis of protein sequences shows that the homolog allergens of Ory s1 are highly correlated with the aromaticity, GRAVY and cysteine content. Moreover, phylogenetic analysis of Ory s1 with other sequences reveals that Oryza sativa japonica and Zea mays are close homologs, whilst Lolium perenne and Dactylis glomerata are found to be remote homologs. The multiple sequence alignment reveals of Ory s1 with all its homologs in this study reveals the high conservation of residues in DPBB_1 domain (amino acid residue positions 86- 164) and was found distinctly in all the sequences. These findings support the proposal that allergenic epitopes encompass conserved residues. The consensus allergenic was found to be mainly composed of hydrophobic residues. The functional sites of allergenic proteins reported in this study shall be attenuated to develop hypoallergenic vaccine. The sequence comparison strategy adopted in this study would pave way effective evolutionary analysis of these allergens.
2001143	Flavimonas oryzihabitans, known previously as Pseudomonas oryzihabitans, and a member of the Centers for Disease Control group Ve-2, is a gram-negative organism that has rarely been implicated as a human pathogen. Flavimonas oryzihabitans appears to be a soil and saprophytic organism that survives in moist environments and is indigenous to rice paddles. To our knowledge, only seven cases of human infection caused by this organism have been reported; they involved four patients with bacteremia and three patients with peritonitis who were receiving continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis. In this report, we describe three immunocompromised patients with catheter-associated bacteremia: a patient with cancer, a patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, and a patient with sickle cell disease. There is emerging clinical evidence that F oryzihabitans should be recognized as an organism that is capable of causing human disease, particularly in immunocompromised patients and with the increased usage of permanent catheters.
20011655	Food protein-induced enterocolitis syndrome (FPIES) is a non-IgE-mediated food allergy characterized by severe vomiting, diarrhea, and often failure to thrive in infants. Symptoms typically resolve after the triggering food-derived protein is removed from the diet and recur within few hours after the re-exposure to the causal protein. The diagnosis is based on clinical symptoms and a positive food challenge. In this study, we report a case of FPIES to rice in an 8-month-old boy. We performed a double-blind placebo-controlled food challenge (DBPCFC) to rice and we measured the intracellular T cell expression of interleukin-4 (IL-4); IL-10, and interferon gamma (IFN-gamma) pre-and post-challenge during an acute FPIES reaction and when tolerance to rice had been achieved. For the first time we describe an increase in T cell IL-4 and decrease in IFN-gamma expression after a positive challenge with rice (i.e. rice triggered a FPIES attack) and an increase in T cell IL-10 expression after rice challenge 6 months later after a negative challenge (i.e., the child had acquired tolerance to rice) in an 8 month old with documented FPIES to rice. A Th2 activation associated with high IL-4 levels may contribute to the pathophysiology of the disease. On the other hand, T cell-derived IL-10 may play a role in the acquisition of immunotolerance by regulating the Th1 and Th2 responses.
20012086	Industrial processes to produce ethanol from lignocellulosic materials are available, but improved efficiency is necessary to make them economically viable. One of the limitations for lignocellulosic conversion to ethanol is the inaccessibility of the cellulose and hemicelluloses within the tight cell wall matrix. Ferulates (FA) can cross-link different arabinoxylan molecules in the cell wall of grasses via diferulate and oligoferulate bridges. This complex cross-linking is thought to be a key factor in limiting the biodegradability of grass cell walls and, therefore, the reduction in FA is an attractive target to improve enzyme accessibility to cellulose and hemicelluloses. Unfortunately, our knowledge of the genes responsible for the incorporation of FA to the cell wall is limited. A bioinformatics prediction based on the gene similarities and higher transcript abundance in grasses relative to dicot species suggested that genes from the pfam family PF02458 may act as arabinoxylan feruloyl transferases. We show here that the FA content in the cell walls and the transcript levels of rice genes Os05g08640, Os06g39470, Os01g09010 and Os06g39390, are both higher in the stems than in the leaves. In addition, an RNA interference (RNAi) construct that simultaneously down-regulates transcript levels of these four genes is associated with a significant reduction in FA of the cell walls from the leaves of the transgenic plants relative to the control (19% reduction, P < 0.0001). Therefore, our experimental results in rice support the bioinformatics prediction that members of family PF02458 are involved in the incorporation of FA into the cell wall in grasses.
20012261	The thermo-sensitive genic male sterility (TGMS) lines play a crucial role in two-line hybrid rice production. For a practical TGMS line, the stability of male sterility is one of the most important technical indicators. In this study, XianS, a spontaneous mutant with stable male sterility from an indica rice cultivar Xianhuangzhan, was classified as a non-pollen type TGMS line. The critical non-pollen sterility point temperature of XianS was determined as 27 degrees C. Genetic analysis demonstrated that the non-pollen sterility in XianS was controlled by a single recessive gene. Using SSR markers and bulked segregant analysis, the TGMS gene in XianS was fine mapped to a 183 kb interval between RMAN81 and RMX21 on chromosome 2. Two markers, 4039-1 and RMX14 completely cosegregated with this gene. Allelism test indicated that the non-pollen phenotype in seven non-pollen type TGMS lines from different sources, XianS, AnnongS-1, Q523S, Q524S, N28S, G421S, and Q527S is caused by the same TGMS gene. Although the location of TGMS gene in XianS is close to the gene OsNAC6, a previously identified candidate gene of tms5 in AnnongS-1, the sequence of OsNAC6 and its promoter region was identical in TGMS line XianS, AnnongS-1, and wild-type Xianhuangzhan. These results suggest that the non-pollen type TGMS trait probably be controlled by the same TGMS gene in different TGMS rice lines, but its real candidate gene still need to be further studied and identified.
20012263	Low temperature or cold stress is one of the major constraints of rice production and productivity in temperate rice-growing countries and high-altitude areas in the tropics. Even though low temperature affects the rice plant in all stages of growth, the percent seed set is damaged severely by cold and this reduces the yield potential of cultivars significantly. In this study, a new source of cold-tolerant line, IR66160-121-4-4-2, was used as a donor parent with a cold-sensitive cultivar, Geumobyeo, to produce 153 F(8) recombinant inbred lines (RILs) for quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis. QTL analysis with 175 polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers and composite interval mapping identified three main-effect QTLs (qPSST-3, qPSST-7, and qPSST-9) on chromosomes 3, 7, and 9. The SSR markers RM569, RM1377, and RM24545 were linked to the identified QTLs for cold tolerance with respect to percent seed set using cold-water (18-19 degrees C) irrigation in the field and controlled air temperature (17 degrees C) in the greenhouse. The total phenotypic variation for cold tolerance contributed by the three QTLs was 27.4%. RILs with high percent seed set under cold stress were validated with linked DNA markers and by haplotype analysis that revealed the contribution of progenitor genomes from the tropical japonica cultivar Jimbrug (Javanica) and temperate japonica cultivar Shen-Nung89-366. Three QTLs contributed by the cold-tolerant parent were identified which showed additive effect on percent seed set under cold treatment. This study demonstrated the utility of a new phenotyping method as well as the identification of SSR markers associated with QTLs for selection of cold-tolerant genotypes to improve temperate rice production.
20012664	Wheat seed storage protein gene loci (Glu-3) and powdery mildew resistance gene loci (Pm3 and Pm3-like) are closely linked on the short arms of homoeologous group 1 chromosomes. To study the structural organization of the Glu-3/Pm3 loci, three bacterial artificial chromosome clones were sequenced from the A, B, and D genomes of hexaploid wheat. The A and B genome clones contained a Glu-3 adjacent to a Pm3-like gene organized in a conserved Glu-3/SFR159/Pm3-like structure. The D genome clone contained clusters of resistance gene analogs but no Pm3. Its similarity to the A and B genome was limited to the Glu-3/SFR159 region. Comparison of the B genome PM3-like deduced amino acid sequence with known PM3 functional isotypes reinforced the hypothesis of allelic evolution via block exchange by gene conversion/recombination. The advent of glutenin genes and the formation of the Glu-3/SFR159/Pm3 locus occurred after divergence of wheat from rice and Brachypodium. Comparison of the A genome homologous sequences permitted an estimate of time of divergence of approximately 0.3 million years ago. The B genome sequences were not colinear indicating that they could either be paralogs or represent different B genome progenitors. Analysis of the 11 complete retrotransposons indicated a time of divergence ranging from 0.29 to 5.62 million years ago, consistent with their complex nested structure.
20013445	Different extraction procedures and clean-up methods were compared in order to develop a sample preparation procedure for the multi-residue analysis of six post-emergence herbicides (metsulfuron methyl, bensulfuron methyl, pyrazosulfuron ethyl, bentazone, bispyribac sodium and cyhalofop butyl) in rice grains followed by liquid chromatography-diode array detection (LC-DAD). Optimum results were obtained dispersing milled rice grain in water, followed by the addition of 1% acetic acid in acetonitrile, MgSO(4) and sodium acetate as a modification of the quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged and safe (QuEChERS) method but no primary and secondary amine (PSA) sorbent was added due to the acidic nature of the herbicides. The method was further expanded to other post-emergence herbicides (quinclorac, clomazone and propanil). Except for quinclorac, which cannot be analysed with this method, the recoveries of the other eight herbicides were in the range 73-111%, with relative standard deviations lower than 12%. Limits of detection (LODs) ranged from 0.03 to 0.08 mg kg(-1). A single analyst can extract twelve samples in 4 h. The method presented here allows the simultaneous residue determination of the most common post-emergence herbicides employed in cultivating rice. It is simple, rapid, sensitive, and can be applied routinely to polished rice grain herbicide residue analysis.
20013446	In order to manage risk of ochratoxin A (OTA) in foods, we re-evaluated the tolerable daily intake (TDI), derived the negligible cancer risk intake (NCRI), and conducted a probabilistic risk assessment. A new approach was developed to derive 'usual' probabilistic exposure in the presence of highly variable occurrence data, such as encountered with low levels of OTA. Canadian occurrence data were used for various raw food commodities or finished foods and were combined with US Department of Agriculture (USDA) food consumption data, which included data on infants and young children. Both variability and uncertainty in input data were considered in the resulting exposure estimates for various age/sex strata. Most people were exposed to OTA on a daily basis. Mean adjusted exposures for all age-sex groups were generally below the NCRI of 4 ng OTA kg bw(-1), except for 1-4-year-olds as a result of their lower body weight. For children, the major contributors of OTA were wheat-based foods followed by oats, rice, and raisins. Beer, coffee, and wine also contributed to total OTA exposure in older individuals. Predicted exposure to OTA decreased when European Commission maximum limits were applied to the occurrence data. The impact on risk for regular eaters of specific commodities was also examined.
20013746	A relatively low salt intake is nowadays considered one of the characteristics of a healthy diet in the Western world because several disorders appear to be unfavorably affected by excessive salt intake with the diet. The first notion about a relation between salt intake and blood pressure traces back to 2500 bc in an ancient Chinese medical textbook. This paper focuses on studies about salt and hypertension in the first half of the 20th century. The first papers in this field were published from the beginning of the century, but due to a modest scientific content were still not considered in the 1940s to provide sufficient evidence in favor of a salt restriction in hypertensive patients. A major practical contribution came from the Kempner rice diet, an effective antihypertensive dietary treatment which included a severe restriction of salt intake. After that, several studies in animals and humans showed that, with regard to the antihypertensive effect, the key element of the Kempner diet was the low salt content. By the first years of the 1950s, the evidence was already available that salt restriction is an effective antihypertensive treatment and that adherence to the treatment should be assessed by monitoring urinary electrolytes.
20014849	Bioaccessibility of a contaminant in foods is the fraction of the contaminant mobilized from the food matrices during gastrointestinal digestion. In the present paper, the bioaccessibility of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in 13 types of foods, including fish, meat, rice, flour, and vegetables, was determined using an in vitro digestion method. The bioaccessibility obtained ranged from 2.6% to 41.3%. It was found that the bioaccessibility of PBDEs exhibited positive correlations with fat and carbohydrate contents and negative correlations with protein and dietary fiber contents in the foods. Fat was the most important factor affecting the bioaccessibility of PBDEs. The mechanism underlying the correlations was discussed in view of partition of PBDEs between liquid and solid phases. To our knowledge, this is the first article systematically investigating the bioaccessibility of PBDEs in foods and demonstrating the influence of the food constituents on the bioaccessibility of PBDEs.
20015061	Jasmonates (JAs) are lipid-derived regulators that play crucial roles in both host immunity and development. We recently identified the NAC transcription factor RIM1 as a host factor involved in multiplication of rice dwarf virus (RDV). Here, we report that RIM1 functions as a transcriptional regulator of JA signaling and is degraded in response to JA treatment via a 26S proteasome-dependent pathway. Plants carrying rim1 mutations show a phenotype of root growth inhibition. The expression profiles of the mutants were significantly correlated with those of JA-treated wild-type plants without accumulation of endogenous JA, indicating that RIM1 functions as a component of JA signaling. The expression of genes encoding JA biosynthetic enzymes (lipoxygenase (LOX), allene oxide synthase 2 (AOS2) and OPDA reductase 7 (OPR7)) was up-regulated in the rim1 mutants under normal conditions, and a rapid and massive accumulation of endogenous JA was detected in the mutants after wounding. These results suggest that RIM1 may represent a new molecular link in jasmonate signaling, and may thereby provide new insights into the well-established coronatine-insensitive 1 (COI1)-Jasmonate ZIM-domain (JAZ) JA signaling pathway.
20015536	Greenhouse and field experiments were conducted to study the direct and residual effect of applying different organic materials on Se accumulation by crops and volatilization from seleniferous soils of northwestern India. Among organic manures, press mud and poultry manures proved 4-5 times more effective in reducing Se accumulation by different crops than farmyard manure. Efficiency of organic manures increased with increase in application rates. Application of both press mud and poultry manures reduced Se accumulation by 44-97% in wheat (Triticum aestivum) and rapeseed (Brassica napus) shoots in the greenhouse; 85-92% in wheat straw, 45-74% in wheat grains, 45-74% in rapeseed straw and 76-92% in rapeseed grains under field conditions. Both the manures remained highly effective in reducing Se accumulation by the crops following wheat and rapeseed and the extent of reduction varied from 50% to 87% in maize (Zea mays) and cowpeas (Vigna sinensis) in the greenhouse and 40-89% in maize and rice (Oryza sativa) crops under field situation. Rate of Se volatilization by wheat and rapeseed crops increased by 1.8-4.0 times; the greatest increase was observed with press mud followed by poultry manure, arhar (Cajanus cajan) leaves and farmyard manure. After 134d of incubation of 500g soil amended with 2% of plant tissues, the maximum amount of Se was volatilized with cowpea leaves (385ng) followed by wheat grains, leaves of maize, sugarcane (Saccharum officcinarum), arhar, poplar (Populus deltoides) and the control (91ng). The results of this study convincingly prove the usefulness of applying press mud and poultry manure in enhancing volatilization and retarding the transfer of Se from soil to plant in seleniferous soils.
20016147	While it has been demonstrated that rice bran might lower the cholesterol level in hypercholesterolemic individuals, its effects on the levels of adiponectin and glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus remain unknown. Twenty-eight volunteers with type 2 diabetes were randomly divided into 2 groups, one of which received a dietary supplement of 20 g of stabilized rice bran and the other placebo once daily for 12 weeks. Parameters such as the level of HbA1c, glucose, insulin, homeostasis model assessment for estimation of relative insulin resistance, high-density and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and adiponectin were evaluated. At the end of the study period, postprandial glucose and the area under the glucose curve of the rice bran group were significantly lower than baseline levels by 14.4 and 15.7%, respectively. Compared to baseline, the HbA1c values in the rice bran group were also significantly lower. Serum total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol concentrations in the rice bran group were 9.2 and 13.7% lower, respectively, than in the placebo group. The plasma free fatty acid and adiponectin concentrations were 20% lower and 40% higher in the rice bran group compared to the placebo group. This study demonstrated that stabilized rice bran can lower the level of HbA1c and blood lipids and increase blood adiponectin concentrations in type 2 diabetic subjects. In light of this, we conclude that stabilized rice bran may represent an important functional nutrient to ameliorate lipid and glycemic anomalies in type 2 diabetic subjects.
20016946	In addition to its role as an energy source for plants, animals and humans, starch is also an environmentally friendly alternative to fossil fuels. In rice, the eating and cooking quality of the grain is determined by its starch properties. The floury endosperm of rice has been explored as an agronomical trait in breeding and genetics studies. In the present study, we characterized a floury endosperm mutant, flo(a), derived from treatment of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cultivar Hwacheong with MNU. The innermost endosperm of the flo(a) mutant exhibited floury characteristics while the outer layer of the endosperm appeared normal. Starch granules in the flo(a) mutant formed a loosely-packed crystalline structure and X-ray diffraction revealed that the overall crystallinity of the starch was decreased compared to wild-type. The FLO(a) gene was isolated via a map-based cloning approach and predicted to encode the tetratricopeptide repeat domain-containing protein, OsTPR. Three mutant alleles contain a nucleotide substitution that generated one stop codon or one splice site, respectively, which presumably disrupts the interaction of the functionally conserved TPR motifs. Taken together, our map-based cloning approach pinpointed an OsTPR as a strong candidate of FLO(a), and the proteins that contain TPR motifs might play a significant role in rice starch biosynthetic pathways.
20016972	Oryza minuta, a tetraploid wild relative of cultivated rice, is an important source for the genetic improvement. Interspecific hybrids were obtained from the cross of O. sativa L. (IR24) and O. minuta (Acc. No. 101133) with 5.58% crossability, which ranged from 0.11% to 1.62% in the backcross generations. The chromosome numbers of the backcross progenies were 24 to 48. Seven yield-related traits of the parents, hybrid F(1), and backcross progenies were evaluated. Simple sequence repeat markers analysis showed that the polymorphism ratio of SSR bands between IR24 and Acc. No. 101133 was 93.2%. The average donor segment number, length, donor genome size, and percentage of donor genome of 92 BC(3)F(1) plants (2n=24) were 24.1, 17.8 cM, 438.4 cM and 26.2%, respectively. They were complex variation and uneven among the chromosomes. These introgression lines could be used to identify the favorable genes of O. minuta and provide a new platform for the genetic improvement of cultivated rice.
20017947	Regulation of gene expression by microRNAs (miRNAs) plays a crucial role in many developmental and physiological processes in plants. miRNAs act to repress expression of their target genes via mRNA cleavage or translational repression. Dozens of miRNA families have been identified in rice, 21 of which are conserved between rice and Arabidopsis. miR172 is a conserved miRNA family which has been shown to regulate expression of APETALA2 (AP2)-like transcription factors in Arabidopsis and maize. The rice genome encodes five AP2-like genes predicted to be targets of miR172. To determine whether these rice AP2-like genes are regulated by miR172 and investigate the function of the target genes, we studied the effect of over-expressing two members of the miR172 family on rice plant development. Analysis of miR172 expression showed that it is most highly expressed in late vegetative stages and developing panicles. Analyses of expression of three miR172 targets showed that SUPERNUMERARY BRACT (SNB) and Os03g60430 have high expression in developing panicles. Expression of miR172 was not inversely correlated with expression of its targets although miR172-mediated cleavage of SNB was detected by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). Over-expression of miR172b in rice delayed the transition from spikelet meristem to floral meristem, and resulted in floral and seed developmental defects, including changes to the number and identity of floral organs, lower fertility and reduced seed weight. Plants over-expressing miR172b not only phenocopied the T-DNA insertion mutant of SNB but showed additional defects in floret development not seen in the snb mutant. However SNB expression was not reduced in the miR172b over-expression plants. The phenotypes resulting from over-expression of miR172b suggests it represses SNB and at least one of the other miR172 targets, most likely Os03g60430, indicating roles for other AP2-like genes in rice floret development. miR172 and the AP2-like genes had overlapping expression patterns in rice and their expression did not show an obvious negative correlation. There was not a uniform decrease in the expression of the AP2-like miR172 target mRNAs in the miR172b over-expression plants. These observations are consistent with miR172 functioning via translational repression or with expression of the AP2-like genes being regulated by a negative feedback loop.
20018598	RNA editing in plants alters specific nucleotides from C to U in mRNAs in plastids and in mitochondria. I here characterize the nuclear gene MITOCHONDRIAL EDITING FACTOR9 (MEF9) that is required for RNA editing of the site nad7-200 in the nad7 mitochondrial mRNA in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The MEF9 protein belongs to the E subfamily of pentatricopeptide repeat proteins and unlike the three previously identified mitochondrial editing factors MEF1 and MEF11 in Arabidopsis and OGR1 in rice (Oryza sativa) does not contain a DYW C-terminal domain. In addition, the E domain is incomplete, but seems to be functionally required, since one of the two independent EMS mutants encodes a MEF9 protein truncated by a stop codon at the beginning of the E domain. In both mutant plants premature stop codons in MEF9 inactivate RNA editing at site nad7-200. The homozygous mutant plants are viable and develop rather normally. The lack of RNA editing at site nad7-200 thus seems to be tolerated although this editing event is conserved in most plant species or the genomic sequence already codes for a T at this position, resulting in a generally conserved amino acid codon.
20018603	Screening of the expressed sequence tag library of the wild rice species Oryza minuta revealed an unknown gene that was rapidly and strongly induced in response to attack by a rice fungal pathogen (Magnaporthe oryzae) and an insect (Nilaparvata lugens) and by wounding, abscisic acid (ABA), and methyl jasmonate treatments. Its recombinant protein was identified as a bifunctional nuclease with both RNase and DNase activities in vitro. This gene was designated OmBBD (for O. minuta bifunctional nuclease in basal defense response). Overexpression of OmBBD in an Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) model system caused the constitutive expression of the PDF1.2, ABA1, and AtSAC1 genes, which are involved in priming ABA-mediated callose deposition. This activation of defense responses led to an increased resistance against Botrytis cinerea. atbbd1, the knockout mutant of the Arabidopsis ortholog AtBBD1, was susceptible to attack by B. cinerea and had deficient callose deposition. Overexpression of either OmBBD or AtBBD1 in atbbd1 plants complemented the susceptible phenotype of atbbd1 against B. cinerea as well as the deficiency of callose deposition. We suggest that OmBBD and AtBBD1 have a novel regulatory role in ABA-mediated callose deposition.
20018701	Planthoppers are highly destructive pests in crop production worldwide. Brown planthopper (BPH) causes the most serious damage of the rice crop globally among all rice pests. Growing resistant varieties is the most effective and environment-friendly strategy for protecting the crop from BPH. More than 19 BPH-resistance genes have been reported and used to various extents in rice breeding and production. In this study, we cloned Bph14, a gene conferring resistance to BPH at seedling and maturity stages of the rice plant, using a map-base cloning approach. We show that Bph14 encodes a coiled-coil, nucleotide-binding, and leucine-rich repeat (CC-NB-LRR) protein. Sequence comparison indicates that Bph14 carries a unique LRR domain that might function in recognition of the BPH insect invasion and activating the defense response. Bph14 is predominantly expressed in vascular bundles, the site of BPH feeding. Expression of Bph14 activates the salicylic acid signaling pathway and induces callose deposition in phloem cells and trypsin inhibitor production after planthopper infestation, thus reducing the feeding, growth rate, and longevity of the BPH insects. Our work provides insights into the molecular mechanisms of rice defense against insects and facilitates the development of resistant varieties to control this devastating insect.
20018713	More than half of the world's population uses rice as a source of carbon intake every day. Improving grain quality is thus essential to rice consumers. The three main properties that determine rice eating and cooking quality--amylose content, gel consistency, and gelatinization temperature--correlate with one another, but the underlying mechanism of these properties remains unclear. Through an association analysis approach, we found that genes related to starch synthesis cooperate with each other to form a fine regulating network that controls the eating and cooking quality and defines the correlation among these three properties. Genetic transformation results verified the association findings and also suggested the possibility of developing elite cultivars through modification with selected major and/or minor starch synthesis-related genes.
20018899	Nucleo-cytoplasmic partitioning of regulatory proteins is increasingly being recognized as a major control mechanism for the regulation of signalling in plants. Ras-related nuclear protein (Ran) GTPase is required for regulating transport of proteins and RNA across the nuclear envelope and also has roles in mitotic spindle assembly and nuclear envelope (NE) assembly. However, thus far little is known of any Ran functions in the signalling pathways in plants in response to changing environmental stimuli. The OsRAN2 gene, which has high homology (77% at the amino acid level) with its human counterpart, was isolated here. Subcellular localization results showed that OsRan2 is mainly localized in the nucleus, with some in the cytoplasm. Transcription of OsRAN2 was reduced by salt, osmotic, and exogenous abscisic acid (ABA) treatments, as determined by real-time PCR. Overexpression of OsRAN2 in rice resulted in enhanced sensitivity to salinity, osmotic stress, and ABA. Seedlings of transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants overexpressing OsRAN2 were overly sensitive to salinity stress and exogenous ABA treatment. Furthermore, three ABA- or stress-responsive genes, AtNCED3, AtPLC1, and AtMYB2, encoding a key enzyme in ABA synthesis, a phospholipase C homologue, and a putative transcriptional factor, respectively, were shown to have differentially induced expression under salinity and ABA treatments in transgenic and wild-type Arabidopsis plants. OsRAN2 overexpression in tobacco epidermal leaf cells disturbed the nuclear import of a maize (Zea mays L.) leaf colour transcription factor (Lc). In addition, gene-silenced rice plants generated via RNA interference (RNAi) displayed pleiotropic developmental abnormalities and were male sterile.
20018903	Virtually all eukaryotic alpha-tubulins harbour a C-terminal tyrosine that can be reversibly removed and religated, catalysed by a specific tubulin-tyrosine carboxypeptidase (TTC) and a specific tubulin-tyrosine ligase (TTL), respectively. The biological function of this post-translational modification has remained enigmatic. 3-nitro-L-tyrosine (nitrotyrosine, NO(2)Tyr), can be incorporated into detyrosinated alpha-tubulin instead of tyrosine, producing irreversibly nitrotyrosinated alpha-tubulin. To gain insight into the possible function of detyrosination, the effect of NO(2)Tyr has been assessed in two plant model organisms (rice and tobacco). NO(2)Tyr causes a specific, sensitive, and dose-dependent inhibition of cell division that becomes detectable from 1 h after treatment and which is not observed with non-nitrosylated tyrosine. These effects are most pronounced in cycling tobacco BY-2 cells, where the inhibition of cell division is accompanied by a stimulation of cell length, and a misorientation of cross walls. NO(2)Tyr reduces the abundance of the detyrosinated form of alpha-tubulin whereas the tyrosinated alpha-tubulin is not affected. These findings are discussed with respect to a model where NO(2)Tyr is accepted as substrate by TTL and subsequently blocks TTC activity. The irreversibly tyrosinated alpha-tubulin impairs microtubular functions that are relevant to cell division in general, and cell wall deposition in particular.
20019075	The prevalence of oral tumor has exponentially increased in recent years; however, the effective therapies or prevention strategies are not sufficient. Red mold rice is a traditional Chinese food, and several reports have demonstrated that red mold rice had an anti-tumor effect. However, the possible anti-tumor mechanisms of the red mold rice are unclear. In this study, we examined the anti-tumor effect of red mold rice on 7,12-dimethyl-1,2-benz[a]anthracene (DMBA)-induced oral tumor in hamster. The ethanol extract of red mold rice (RMRE) treatment significantly decreases the levels of DMBA-induced reactive oxygen species, nitro oxide and prostaglandin E(2) than those of the lovastatin-treated group (P < .001). Moreover, RMRE decreases the formation of oral tumor induced by DMBA. Monacolin K, monascin, ankaflavin or other red mold rice metabolites had been reported to decrease inflammation and oxidative stress and exerted anti-tumor effects. Therefore, we evaluated the anti-inflammation and anti-oxidative stress effects of monacolin K, monascin, ankaflavin and citrinin in lipopolysaccharide-treated RAW264.7 cells. We found that RMRE reduced the LPS-induced nitrite levels in RAW264.7 cells better than monacolin K, monascin, ankaflavin or citrinin (P < .05).
20021149	Although satratoxin G (SG) is the primary macrocyclic trichothecene produced by Stachybotrys chartarum, a fungus frequently associated with outbreaks of indoor air illness, little is known about the actual quantities of this mycotoxin in suspect or normal building environments. Using antibodies produced against an SG hemisuccinate-bovine serum albumin conjugate, we devised an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay that enabled the detection of as little as 100 pg/mL of SG and that could also detect other members of the satratoxin family. Detection by this assay of satratoxins in methanolic extracts of S. chartarum in rice cultures was comparable to that of high-performance liquid chromatography, indicating that this assay will be useful in detecting SG and other satratoxins in environmental samples.
20021558	The activity of plasma membrane (PM) nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) oxidase and its catalytic properties in rice was investigated under drought stress conditions. Drought stress led to decreased leaf relative water content (RWC) and, as a result of drought-induced oxidative stress, the activities of antioxidant enzymes increased significantly. More interestingly, the intensity of applied water stress was correlated with increased production of H2O2 and O2 (-) and elevated activity of PM NADPH oxidase, a key enzyme of reactive oxygen species generation in plants. Histochemical analyses also revealed increased H2O2 and O2 (-) production in drought-stressed leaves. Application of diphenylene iodonium (DPI), an inhibitor of PM NADPH oxidase, did not alleviate drought-induced production of H2O2 and O2 (-). Catalysis experiments indicated that the rice PM NADPH oxidase was partially flavin-dependent. The pH and temperature optima for this enzyme were 9.8 and 40 degrees C, respectively. In addition, drought stress enhanced the activity under alkaline pH and high temperature conditions. These results suggest that a complex regulatory mechanism, associated with the NADPH oxidase-H2O2 system, is involved in the response of rice to drought stress.
20021559	A new heuristic approach was undertaken for the establishment of a core set for the diversity research of rice. As a result, 107 entries were selected from the 10 368 characterized accessions. The core set derived using this new approach provided a good representation of the characterized accessions present in the entire collection. No significant differences for the mean, range, standard deviation and coefficient of variation of each trait were observed between the core and existing collections. We also compared the diversity of core sets established using this Heuristic Core Collection (HCC) approach with those of core sets established using the conventional clustering methods. This modified heuristic algorithm can also be used to select genotype data with allelic richness and reduced redundancy, and to facilitate management and use of large collections of plant genetic resources in a more efficient way.
20021560	The main objective of the present study was to identify simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers associated with the amino acid content of rice (Oryza sativa L.). SSR markers were selected by prescreening for the relationship to amino acid content. Eighty-four rice landrace accessions from Korea were evaluated for 16 kinds of amino acids in brown rice and genotyped with 25 SSR markers. Analysis of population structure revealed four subgroups in the population. Linkage disequilibrium (LD) patterns and distributions are of fundamental importance for genome-wide mapping associations. The mean r(2) value for all intrachromosomal loci pairs was 0.033. LD between linked markers decreased with distance. Marker-trait associations were investigated using the unified mixed-model approach, considering both population structure (Q) and kinship (K). A total of 42 marker-trait associations with amino acids (P < 0.05) were identified using 15 different SSR markers covering three chromosomes and explaining more than 40% of the total variation. These results suggest that association analysis in rice is a viable alternative to quantitative trait loci mapping and should help rice breeders develop strategies for improving rice quality.
20021561	Transgene escape from genetically modified (GM) rice into weedy rice via gene flow may cause undesired environmental consequences. Estimating the field performance of crop-weed hybrids will facilitate our understanding of potential introgression of crop genes (including transgenes) into weedy rice populations, allowing for effective biosafety assessment. Comparative studies of three weedy rice strains and their hybrids with two GM rice lines containing different insect-resistance transgenes (CpTI or Bt/CpTI) indicated an enhanced relative performance of the crop-weed hybrids, with taller plants, more tillers, panicles, and spikelets per plant, as well as higher 1 000-seed weight, compared with the weedy rice parents, although the hybrids produced less filled seeds per plant than their weedy parents. Seeds from the F(1) hybrids had higher germination rates and produced more seedlings than the weedy parents, which correlated positively with 1 000-seed weight. The crop-weed hybrids demonstrated a generally enhanced relative performance than their weedy rice parents in our field experiments. These findings indicate that transgenes from GM rice can persist to and introgress into weedy rice populations through recurrent crop-to-weed gene flow with the aid of slightly increased relative fitness in F(1) hybrids.
20022013	A novel Hadamard transform-gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (HT-GC/MS) system equipped with on-line sample collection systems is described. A Hadamard-injector was successfully designed and then coupled with an on-line adsorption/desorption system for detecting volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and a supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) system, respectively, by HT-GC/MS. Six VOCs and three pesticides were used as model compounds. In the former case, an activated-charcoal trap was used to trap VOCs from the indoor air. After 10L of indoor air had passed through the trap, the condensed components were heated and simultaneously injected into the GC column through the Hadamard-injector, based on Hadamard codes. In a second experiment, a sample of rice was spiked with three types of pesticides and the sample then extracted using a commercially available supercritical fluid extractor. After extraction, the extracted components were transferred to a holding tank and simultaneously injected into the GC column also using the Hadamard-injector. The findings show that, in both cases, the combination of on-line sample collection methods and the use of the Hadamard transform resulted in improved sensitivity and detection. Compared to the single injection used in most GC/MS systems, the signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios were substantially improved after inverse Hadamard transformation of the encoded chromatogram.
20022241	This work studied the concentration of hydrolyzates obtained from dilute acid hydrolysis of rice straw using nanofiltration (NF). In order to minimize the Donnan exclusion effect of the membrane, the hydrolyzate solution was controlled at low pH value. Negative retentions of both furans and carboxylic acids were observed. The maximum separation factor of acetic acid over xylose was 49, while the maximum separation factor of acetic acid over arabinose was 52, when the system was operated at pH 2.9 and an applied pressure of 24.5-34.3 bar. The separation factors of inhibitors over glucose became infinity due to the complete retention of glucose. The separation performance decreased when the operating temperature was increased from 25 to 40 degrees C. The flux deterioration was recovered by flushing with 0.01 N of NaOH and water.
20022289	In the face of global change, agriculture increasingly requires germplasm with high yields on marginal lands. Identifying pathways that are adaptive under marginal conditions is increasingly possible with advances at the intersection of evolutionary ecology, population genetics, and functional genomics. Trait-based (reverse ecology) approaches have connected flowering time in Arabidopsis thaliana to single alleles with environment-specific effects. Similarly, genetic dissection of rice flooding tolerance enabled the production of near-isogenic lines exhibiting tolerance and high yields. An alternative gene-forward (forward ecology) approach identified candidate genes for local adaptation of Arabidopsis lyrata to heavy-metal rich soils. A global perspective on plant adaptation and trait correlations provides a foundation for breeding tolerant crops and suggests populations adapted to marginal habitats be conservation priorities.
20022921	Osmotic stresses such as drought, salinity, and cold are major environmental factors that limit agricultural productivity worldwide. Protein phosphorylation/dephosphorylation are major signalling events induced by osmotic stress in higher plants. Sucrose non-fermenting 1-related protein kinase2 family members play essential roles in response to hyperosmotic stresses in Arabidopsis, rice, and maize. In this study, the function of TaSnRK2.4 in drought, salt, and freezing stresses in Arabidopsis was characterized. A translational fusion protein of TaSnRK2.4 with green fluorescent protein showed subcellular localization in the cell membrane, cytoplasm, and nucleus. To examine the role of TaSnRK2.4 under various environmental stresses, transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing wheat TaSnRK2.4 under control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter were generated. Overexpression of TaSnRK2.4 resulted in delayed seedling establishment, longer primary roots, and higher yield under normal growing conditions. Transgenic Arabidopsis overexpressing TaSnRK2.4 had enhanced tolerance to drought, salt, and freezing stresses, which were simultaneously supported by physiological results, including decreased rate of water loss, enhanced higher relative water content, strengthened cell membrane stability, improved photosynthesis potential, and significantly increased osmotic potential. The results show that TaSnRK2.4 is involved in the regulation of enhanced osmotic potential, growth, and development under both normal and stress conditions, and imply that TaSnRK2.4 is a multifunctional regulatory factor in Arabidopsis. Since the overexpression of TaSnRK2.4 can significantly strengthen tolerance to drought, salt, and freezing stresses and does not retard the growth of transgenic Arabidopsis plants under well-watered conditions, TaSnRK2.4 could be utilized in transgenic breeding to improve abiotic stresses in crops.
20022924	Large phenotypic variations in the cadmium (Cd) concentration of rice grains and shoots have been observed. However, the genetic control of Cd accumulation remains poorly understood. Quantitative trait loci (QTLs) determining the grain Cd concentration of rice grown in a Cd-polluted paddy field were identified. Using a mapping population consisting of 85 backcross inbred lines derived from a cross between the low-Cd-accumulating cultivar Sasanishiki (japonica) and high-Cd-accumulating cultivar Habataki (indica), two QTLs for increasing grain Cd concentration were found on chromosomes 2 and 7. A major-effect QTL, qGCd7 (QTL for grain Cd on chromosome 7), was detected on the short arm of chromosome 7. It accounted for 35.5% of all phenotypic variance in backcross inbred lines. qGCd7 was not genetically related to any QTLs for concentrations of essential trace metals (Cu, Fe, Mn, and Zn) or those for agronomic traits such as heading date, suggesting that this QTL is specific to Cd. Furthermore, the existence of qGCd7 was confirmed using chromosome segment substitution lines (CSSLs) and an F(2) population from a cross between the target CSSL and Sasanishiki grown in a Cd-polluted paddy soil. To our knowledge, qGCd7 is a novel QTL with major effects for increasing grain Cd concentrations.
20023302	Linoleate diol synthases (LDS) are heme enzymes, which oxygenate 18:2n-6 sequentially to (8R)-hydroperoxylinoleic acid ((8R)-HPODE) and to (5S,8R)-dihydroxy-, (7S,8S)-dihydroxy-, or (8R,11S)-dihydroxylinoleic acids (DiHODE). The genome of the rice blast fungus, Magnaporthe oryzae, contains two genes with homology to LDS. M. oryzae oxidized 18:2n-6 to (8R)-HPODE and to (7S,8S)-DiHODE, (6S,8R)-DiHODE, and (8R,11S)-HODE. Small amounts of 10-hydroxy-(8E,12Z)-octadecadienoic acid and traces of 5,8-DiHODE were also detected by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. The contribution of the 7,8-LDS gene to M. oryzae pathogenicity was evaluated by replacement of the catalytic domain with hygromycin and green fluorescent protein variant (SGFP) cassettes. This genetically modified strain Delta7,8-LDS infected rice leaves and roots and formed appressoria and conidia as the native fungus. The Delta7,8-LDS mutant had lost the capacity to biosynthesize all the metabolites except small amounts of 8-hydroxylinoleic acid. Studies with stereospecifically deuterated linoleic acids showed that (8R)-HPODE was formed by abstraction of the pro-S hydrogen at C-8 and antarafacial oxygenation, whereas (7S,8S)-DiHODE and (8R,11S)-DiHODE were formed from (8R)-HPODE by suprafacial hydrogen abstraction and oxygenation at C-7 and C-11, respectively. A mac1 suppressor mutant (Delta mac1 sum1-99) of M. oryzae, which shows cAMP-independent protein kinase A activity, oxygenated 18:2n-6 to increased amounts of (10R)-HPODE and (5S,8R)-DiHODE. Expression of the 7,8-LDS gene but not of the second homologue was detected in the suppressor mutant. This suggests that PKA-mediated signaling pathway regulates the dioxygenase and hydroperoxide isomerase activities of M. oryzae.
20023411	The directional transport of the plant hormone auxin depends on transcellular gradients of auxin-efflux carriers that continuously cycle between plasma membrane and intracellular compartments. This cycling has been proposed to depend on actin filaments. However, the role of actin for the polarity of auxin transport has been disputed. To get insight into this question, actin bundling was induced by overexpression of the actin-binding domain of talin in tobacco BY-2 cells and in rice plants. This bundling can be reverted by addition of auxins, which allows to address the role of actin organization on the flux of auxin. In both systems, the reversion of a normal actin configuration can be restored by addition of exogenous auxins and this fully restores the respective auxin-dependent functions. These findings lead to a model of a self-referring regulatory circuit between polar auxin transport and actin organization. To further dissect the actin-auxin oscillator, we used photoactivated release of caged auxin in tobacco cells to demonstrate that auxin gradients can be manipulated at a subcellular level.
20024684	Plant root exudates increase nutrient availability and influence microbial communities including archaeal members. We examined the archaeal community inhabiting the rhizoplane of two contrasting vascular plants, Dulichium arundinaceum and Sarracenia purpurea, from an acidic bog in upstate NY. Multiple archaeal 16S rRNA gene libraries showed that methanogenic Archaea were dominant in the rhizoplane of both plants. In addition, the community structure (evenness) of the rhizoplane was found markedly different from the bulk peat. The archaeal community in peat from the same site has been found dominated by the E2 group, meanwhile the rhizoplane communities on both plants were co-dominated by Methanosarcinaceae (MS), rice cluster (RC)-I, and E2. Complementary T-RFLP analysis confirmed the difference between bulk peat and rhizoplane, and further characterized the dominance pattern of MS, RC-I, and E2. In the rhizoplane, MS was dominant on both plants although as a less variable fraction in S. purpurea. RC-I was significantly more abundant than E2 on S. purpurea, while the opposite was observed on D. arundinaceum, suggesting a plant-specific enrichment. Also, the statistical analyses of T-RFLP data showed that although both plants overlap in their community structure, factors such as plant type, patch location, and time could explain nearly a third of the variability in the dataset. Other factors such as water table, plant replicate, and root depth had a low contribution to the observed variance. The results of this study illustrate the general effects of roots and the specific effects of plant types on their nearby archaeal communities which in bog-inhabiting plants were mainly composed by methanogenic groups.
20027674	There are limited data on celiac disease (CD) from India. The limited knowledge about CD in India might be attributed to several factors. The first meeting of the Indian Task Force for Celiac Disease was held in the Asian Institute of Gastroenterology, Hyderabad, India in December 2008. The objectives of the meeting were to focus research on prevalence of CD in the wheat-eating Northern vs the rice-eating Southern Indian population, low-budget serological assays to study the underprivileged population, to involve other medical subspecialties in CD, to suggest proper legislation regarding wheat food labeling, and to organize affordable food substitutes for patients with celiac disease.
20028002	This study develops the reaction pathway map for the unimolecular decomposition of catechol, a model compound for various structural entities present in biomass, coal, and wood. Reaction rate constants at the high-pressure limit are calculated for the various possible initiation channels. It is found that catechol decomposition is initiated dominantly via hydroxyl H migration to a neighboring ortho carbon bearing an H atom. We identify the direct formation of o-benzoquinone to be unimportant at all temperatures, consistent with the absence of this species from experimental measurements. At temperatures higher than 1000 K, water elimination through concerted expulsion of a hydroxyl OH together with an ortho H becomes the most significant channel. Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus simulations are performed to establish the branching ratio between these two important channels as a function of temperature and pressure. All unimolecular routes to the reported major experimental products (CO, 1,3-C(4)H(6) and cyclo-C(5)H(6)) are shown to incur large activation barriers. The results presented herein should be instrumental in gaining a better understanding of the decomposition behavior of catechol-related compounds.
20028018	The QuEChERS (quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe) sample preparation method was modified to accommodate various cereal grain matrices (corn, oat, rice, and wheat) and provide good analytical results (recoveries in the range of 70-120% and RSDs <20%) for the majority of the target pesticides (about 180 analytes). The method consists of a 1 h shaking of a milled sample (2.5-5 g) in 20 mL of 1:1 (v/v) water/acetonitrile (or 25 mL of 1.5:1 water/acetonitrile in the case of rice) to provide simultaneous matrix swelling and analyte extraction. Then, a MgSO(4)/NaCl salt mixture (4:1, w/w) is added to the extract to induce phase separation and force the pesticides into the upper acetonitrile layer, a 1 mL aliquot of which is subsequently cleaned up using dispersive solid phase extraction with 150 mg of PSA, 50 mg of C(18), and 150 mg of MgSO(4). GC-amenable pesticides were analyzed using gas chromatography combined with time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOFMS) and the automated direct sample introduction technique for a large volume injection of the extracts. Ultraperformance liquid chromatography coupled to triple-quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) was employed for the analysis of LC-amenable pesticides. This method was implemented in a routine laboratory, providing about 3-fold increased sample throughput, 40-50% reduction in the cost of disposable materials and in the operation costs, 1:100 solvent waste reduction, and increased scope of the analysis versus the traditional approach based on the Luke method.
20028400	Ketol-acid reductoisomerase (KARI; EC 1.1.1.86) catalyzes the second common step in branched-chain amino acid biosynthesis. This enzyme is an important target for drug design. Based on the crystal structure of ketol-acid reductoisomerase/N-hydroxy-N-isopropyloxamate (IpOHA) complex, we have carried out high throughput receptor-based virtual screening of the ZINC/drug like database (2 000 000 compounds) to look for novel inhibitors of KARI for the first time. Some novel compounds were found to inhibit rice KARI in vitro among 15 procured compounds. This method can provide useful information for further design and discovery of KARI inhibitors.
20028601	Two independent cross-sectional dietary surveys (the Individual and National Food Consumption Surveys, INCA), performed in 1998-99 (INCA1) and in 2006-07 (INCA2) on nationally representative samples of French people, were used to analyse trends in the dietary habits and nutritional intake of French adults. Food consumption was recorded through 7-d dietary records, and nutritional intakes were assessed using the French food composition database. After exclusion of under-reporters, analyses were performed on 3267 adults, aged 18-79 years: 1345 from INCA1 and 1922 from INCA2. The trends highlighted over the 8-year period showed a decrease in consumption of dairy products, meat, bread, potatoes, pastries/croissant-like pastries/cakes/biscuits and sugar/confectionery. In contrast, the consumption of fruits and vegetables, rice, ice cream and chocolate increased. Other food groups, like fish and snacking foods, remained stable. Food choices were mostly age specific. These age differences remained consistent over the years and underlined two opposite dietary trends: a 'traditional' one mainly followed by the elderly, and a 'snacking and convenience' one mainly adopted by young adults. The overall trends in food consumption did not influence the mean energy intake, but did slightly modify the contribution of each macronutrient to energy intake. These repeated surveys highlighted the fact that trends in French food habits have moved towards an average European diet at the crossroads between Mediterranean and Northern diets, and that food consumption changes impacted, to a lesser extent, nutritional intake.
20028842	Cadmium (Cd) is a widespread soil pollutant; thus, the underlying molecular controls of plant Cd tolerance are of substantial interest. A screen for wheat (Triticum aestivum) genes that confer Cd tolerance to a Cd hypersensitive yeast strain identified Heat shock transcription factor A4a (HsfA4a). Ta HsfA4a is most similar to the class A4 Hsfs from monocots. The most closely related rice (Oryza sativa) homolog, Os HsfA4a, conferred Cd tolerance in yeast, as did Ta HsfA4a, but the second most closely related rice homolog, Os HsfA4d, did not. Cd tolerance was enhanced in rice plants expressing Ta HsfA4a and decreased in rice plants with knocked-down expression of Os HsfA4a. An analysis of the functional domain using chimeric proteins constructed from Ta HsfA4a and Os HsfA4d revealed that the DNA binding domain (DBD) of HsfA4a is critical for Cd tolerance, and within the DBD, Ala-31 and Leu-42 are important for Cd tolerance. Moreover, Ta HsfA4a-mediated Cd resistance in yeast requires metallothionein (MT). In the roots of wheat and rice, Cd stress caused increases in HsfA4a expression, together the MT genes. Our findings thus suggest that HsfA4a of wheat and rice confers Cd tolerance by upregulating MT gene expression in planta.
20030134	In a pot experiment, rice plants were shaded during the period from transplanting to booting, aimed to study the effects of early growth stage shading on the rice growth at grain-filling stage. Comparing with the control, early growth stage shading decreased the tiller number by 26.72%, but increased the flag leaf area and soluble sugar content by 33.86% and 30.23%, respectively. The filled-grain number per panicle, 1000-grain mass, ultimate brown rice mass, and maximum and average grain-filling rates decreased by 8.65%, 4.81%, 9.74%, 20.22%, and 19.13%, and the effective panicle number and grain yield declined by 25.26% and 39.56%, respectively. The peak time of grain-filling rate (Tm) advanced 1.66 days, while the grain-filling time (T99) prolonged 6.80 days. For shading-tolerance variety, its flag leaf Chl a, Chl b, and Chl (a + b) contents at early and mid grain-filling stages, and the protein N and soluble sugar contents and Chl a/b in its flag leaves at grain-filling stage all increased under early growth stage shading, and the ultimate brown rice mass and 1000-grain mass maintained at the similar levels as the control. Consequently, its grain yield reduction rate was lower than that of shading-sensitive variety.
20030326	A high-amylose transgenic rice line (TRS) modified by antisense RNA inhibition of starch branching enzymes revealed a resistant starch-rich quality. Compound starch granules in whole grains of the regular rice cultivar Teqing (TQ) were readily split during fracturing, whereas the starch granules in TRS were structurally intact and showed large voluminous, non-angular rounded bodies and elongated, filamentous structures tolerant of fracturing. In isolated preparation, TQ starch granules broke up into separate polygonal granules, whereas TRS starch granules kept their intactness. TRS starch granules consisted of packed smaller subgranules, some of which located at the periphery of starch granules were fused to each other with adjacent ones forming a thick band or wall encircling the entire circumference of the granules. TQ starch granules had a high concentration of amylose in the concentric hilum, whereas TRS starch granules showed a relatively even distribution of amylose with intense amylose in both hilum and band.
20031181	To learn more about the biomineralization process of struvite in ruminants, a seldom noticeable crystal, struvite-K, was investigated in six goats in which urolithiasis was induced by feeding a cottonseed meal and rice straw diet supplemented with MgO. The compositions of crystals and calculi were studied by chemical qualitative analysis and X-ray energy dispersive spectrometry (EDS). The activity product (AP) and relative supersaturation (RSS) of magnesium ammonium phosphate (MAP) and potassium magnesium phosphate (MKP) were calculated to compare the difference of crystals formed in this process. The results showed that calculi consisted of MAP with a little MKP. Crystals in the urine consisted of MAP and MKP before stone formation, but crystals in urine after stone formation mainly consisted of MKP. The AP and RSS of MAP and MKP significantly decreased after stone formation. It was concluded that MAP and MKP may coexist in the crystals of urine before struvite calculi formation but MKP did not precipitate to struvite calculi and was separated out as crystal sedimentation of urine. The changes of crystallization of MAP and MKP contributed partially to the supersaturation status of MAP and MKP during struvite stone formation.
20031917	The phytochrome (phy)A and phyB photoreceptors mediate three photobiological response modes in plants; whereas phyA can mediate the very-low-fluence response (VLFR), the high-irradiance response (HIR) and, to some extent, the low fluence response (LFR), phyB and other type II phytochromes only mediate the LFR. To investigate to what level a rice phyA can complement for Arabidopsis phyA or phyB function and to evaluate the role of the serine residues in the first 20 amino acids of the N-terminus of phyA, we examined VLFR, LFR, and HIR responses in phyB and phyAphyB mutant plants transformed with rice PHYA cDNA or a mutant rice PHYA cDNA in which the first 10 serine residues were mutated to alanines (phyA SA). Utilizing mutants without endogenous phyB allowed the evaluation of red-light-derived responses sensed by the rice phyA. In summary, the WT rice phyA could complement VLFR and LFR responses such as inhibition of hypocotyl elongation under pulses of FR or continuous R light, induction of flowering and leaf expansion, whereas the phyA SA was more specific for HIR responses (e.g. inhibition of hypocotyl elongation and anthocyanin accumulation under continuous far-red light). As the N-terminal serines can no longer be phosphorylated in the phyA SA mutant, this suggests a role for phosphorylation discriminating between the different phyA-dependent responses. The efficacy of the rice phyA expressed in Arabidopsis was dependent upon the developmental age of the plants analyzed and on the physiological response, suggesting a stage-dependent downstream modulation of phytochrome signaling.
20032208	The plant genome encodes a wide range of receptor-like proteins but the function of most of these proteins is unknown. We propose the use of affinity cross-linking of biotinylated ligands for a ligand-based survey of the corresponding receptor molecules. Biotinylated ligands not only enable the analysis of receptor-ligand interactions without the use of radioactive compounds but also the isolation and identification of receptor molecules by a simple affinity trapping method. We successfully applied this method for the characterization, isolation and identification of the chitin elicitor binding protein (CEBiP). A biocytin hydrazide conjugate of N-acetylchitooctaose (GN8-Bio) was synthesized and used for the detection of CEBiP in the plasma or microsomal membrane preparations from rice and carrot cells. Binding characteristics of CEBiP analyzed by inhibition studies were in good agreement with the previous results obtained with the use of a radiolabeled ligand. The biotin-tagged CEBiP could be purified by avidin affinity chromatography and identified by LC-MALDI-MS/MS after tryptic digestion. We also used this method to detect OsFLS2, a rice receptor-like kinase for the perception of the peptide elicitor flg22, in membrane preparations from rice cells overexpressing OsFLS2. This work demonstrates the applicability of this method to the purification and identification of plant receptor proteins.
20034395	Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR), Pseudomonas fluorescens strain KH-1 was found to exhibit plant growth promotional activity in rice under both in-vitro and in-vivo conditions. But the mechanism underlying such promotional activity of P. fluorescens is not yet understood clearly. In this study, efforts were made to elucidate the molecular responses of rice plants to P. fluorescens treatment through protein profiling. Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis strategy was adopted to identify the PGPR responsive proteins and the differentially expressed proteins were analyzed by mass spectrometry. Priming of P. fluorescens, 23 different proteins found to be differentially expressed in rice leaf sheaths and MS analysis revealed the differential expression of some important proteins namely putative p23 co-chaperone, Thioredoxin h- rice, Ribulose-bisphosphate carboxylase large chain precursor, Nucleotide diPhosphate kinase, Proteosome sub unit protein and putative glutathione S-transferase protein. Functional analyses of the differential proteins were reported to be directly or indirectly involved in growth promotion in plants. Thus, this study confirms the primary role of PGPR strain KH-1 in rice plant growth promotion.
20034619	Amylose, a putative linear alpha-(1-->4)-glucan and a component of most starches, was isolated from potato, rice, and wheat starches by forming the 1-butanol complex in a solution of the starches. It previously had been found that these amyloses were incompletely hydrolyzed by beta-amylase, indicating that it was partially branched. Solubilization of the butanol complex in water and steam distillation of the 1-butanol, followed by cooling to 4 degrees C gave precipitation of the double helical, linear, retrograded amylose over a 15 h period, leaving the soluble amylose in solution. The soluble amyloses were precipitated with two volumes of ethanol, and the precipitate was solubilized and reprecipitated to remove traces of linear amylose. The precipitated, soluble amyloses, were partially branched and had properties intermediate between linear amylose and amylopectin. The water solubility of the potato amylose was 10.52 mg/mL, with a number-average degree of polymerization (DP(n)) of 8440 and 2.1% branch linkages that had a DP(n) of 48; the water solubility of the rice amylose was 8.83 mg/mL, with a DP(n) of 2911 and 1.4% branch linkages that had a DP(n) of 72; and the water solubility of wheat amylose was 6.33 mg/mL, with a DP(n) of 1160 and 1.6% branch linkages that had a DP(n) of 64. The three soluble amyloses have structures and properties intermediate between the nearly water insoluble (<or= 1mg/mL), linear amylose, and the highly water-soluble, 4-5% branched, amylopectin.
20035966	A kinetic model consisting of first-order desorption and biodegradation processes was developed to describe the bioregeneration of phenol- and p-nitrophenol-loaded powdered activated carbon (PAC) and pyrolyzed rice husk (PRH), respectively. Different dosages of PAC and PRH were loaded with phenol or p-nitrophenol by contacting with the respective phenolic compound at various concentrations. The kinetic model was used to fit the phenol or p-nitrophenol concentration data in the bulk solution during the bioregeneration process to determine the rate constants of desorption, k(d), and biodegradation, k. The results showed that the kinetic model fitted relatively well (R(2)>0.9) to the experimental data for the phenol- and p-nitrophenol-loaded PAC as well as p-nitrophenol-loaded PRH. Comparison of the values of k(d) and k shows that k is much greater than k(d). This indicates clearly that the desorption process is the rate-determining step in bioregeneration and k(d) can be used to characterize the rate of bioregeneration. The trend of the variation of the k(d) values with the dosages of PAC or PRH used suggests that higher rate of bioregeneration can be achieved under non-excess adsorbent dosage condition.
20036461	Laccase is among the major enzymes which plays an important role in ligninolytic system of fungi. Laccase production by Aspergillus heteromorphus was studied using anaerobically treated distillery spent wash (ADSW) and lignocellulosic biomass. Lignocellulosic biomass (rice straw, wheat straw and sugarcane bagasse) generated during biomass processing leads to solid waste and distillery spent wash is unwanted liquid waste produced by distilleries, both causes environmental pollution. Two mineral media and anaerobically treated distillery spent wash medium was tested for laccase production. Enzyme production in various media and in presence and absence of lignocellulosic biomass supplements showed that anaerobically treated distillery spent wash medium was a better laccase inducer medium than the mineral media. Addition of lignocellulosic biomass enhances laccase production and highest laccase activity was obtained in 5% anaerobically treated distillery spent wash medium with rice straw.
20036532	An inoculum containing two amylolytic and three cellulolytic thermophilic bacteria, isolated from a preceding compost pile and identified as Geobacillus species by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, was applied to a mixture of market waste, rice straw and cow dung (5:1:0.2) so that the initial cell density was 2 x 10(8) colony forming unit (CFU) per gram dry weight at 55 degrees Celsius. The inoculation increased the total cell count particularly in the thermophilic stage as determined by flow cytometry. Concomitantly, there was a significant rise in microbial metabolism in the compost pile as reflected by the dehydrogenase activity. As a result, the C/N ratio dropped more rapidly in the inoculated mixture than that in the control without inoculum. The study, therefore, suggested that inoculation by thermophilic bacteria would be effective in the composting process at least in the thermophilic stage.
20036660	Nitrate compartmentalization in intracellular organelles has been long recognized as critical for plant physiology but the molecular identity of the proteins involved remained unclear for a long time. In Arabidopsis thaliana, AtClC-a has been recently shown to be a NO(3)(-)/H(+) antiporter critical for nitrate transport into the vacuoles. AtClC-a is a member of the CLC protein family, whose animal and bacterial members, comprising both channels and H(+)-coupled antiporters, have been previously implicated exclusively in Cl(-) transport. Despite the different NO(3)(-) over Cl(-) selectivity of AtClC-a compared to the other CLC antiporters, it has similar transport properties. Other CLC homologues have been cloned in Arabidopsis, tobacco, rice and soybean.
20037474	Protein degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome system is necessary for a normal cell cycle. As compared with knowledge of the mechanism in animals and yeast, that in plants is less known. Here we summarize research into the regulatory mechanism of protein degradation in the cell cycle in plants. Anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome (APC), in the E3 family of enzymes, plays an important role in maintaining normal mitosis. APC activation and substrate specificity is determined by its activators, which can recognize the destruction box (D-box) in APC target proteins. Oryza sativa root architecture-associated 1 (OsRAA1) with GTP-binding activity was originally cloned from rice. Overexpression of of OsRAA1 inhibits the growth of primary roots in rice. Knockdown lines showed reduced height of seedlings because of abnormal cell division. OsRAA1 transgenic rice and fission yeast show a higher proportion of metaphase cells than that of controls, which suggests a blocked transition from metaphase to anaphase during mitosis. OsRAA1 co-localizes with spindle tubulin. It contains the D-box motif and interacts with OsRPT4 of the regulatory particle of 26S proteasome. OsRAA1 may be a cell cycle inhibitor that can be degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome system, and its disruption is necessary for the transition from metaphase to anaphase during root growth in rice.
20038028	In the present study, different drought tolerance rice from different countries and areas were selected and grown in water field and drought field respectively, including 4 traditional varieties of drought rice, 18 varieties of modified drought rice, 2 varieties of drought traits rice, 2 varieties of drought tolerance rice, and a total of 30 different varieties of drought tolerance rice were involved. Using near infrared diffuse reflection spectra of leaves from water field and drought field, we studied the rice drought tolerance identification analysis. Results showed that: using the average spectra of several leaves' spectra, selecting 4,500-7,500 cm(-1) as effective analysis spectra zone, choosing the first derivative and multiple scattering correction (MSC) as spectra preprocessing method, we can set up the calibration models between the spectra of leaves from drought field and the yield of rice. Simultaneously, we concluded that the performance of calibration model for rice yield and drought tolerance identification indexes in the upper booting stage was better than in the previous booting stage whose correlation coefficient of cross validation could reach 0.8. But there was no obvious relation between the spectra from water field and the yield, the drought tolerance identification indexes. We explained the difference in these two series models' performance from the relationship between some parameter of the leaves' biochemistry (chlorophyll, moisture, etc) and yield, the drought tolerance identification indexes.
20038044	The remote sensing pollution mechanism in Cd-polluted soil is discussed depending on the research into the chlorophyll content of Cd-polluted rice leaf in the present paper. The response models of remote sensing information parameters, which reflected chlorophyll content variety of rice canopy with soil Cd pollution degree, were established based on Hyperion satellite data and a great number of ground experiment data. To extract sensitive remote sensing parameters for Cd pollution, multiple discriminant analysis (MDA) was applied to the reflectivity of 447-925 nm in Hyperion data and five remote sensing information parameters, including MCARI, NPCI, RVSI, NDVI and Depth671. Experiments indicated that MCARI is the most sensitive parameter to the chlorophyll content of Cd-polluted rice, whose response coefficient is 0.59. In the extent of 1.0-2.0 mg x kg(-1) of Cd pollution concentration in soil, MCARI curve shows a small decline. In the extent of 2.0-3.0 mg x kg(-1) of Cd pollution concentration in soil, MCARI curve is horizontal. Above 3.0 mg x kg(-1), MCARI shows a significant drop trend and so on. The research results showed that the chlorophyll content is a good indicator for nutrition situation of plant, capacity of photosynthesis and each developmental stage. And the chlorophyll remote sensing parameters in crop have a great significance for monitoring heavy metal pollution This study will help improve the precision and limitation of statistical methods and provide theoretical basis for and technical approach to monitoring soil Cd pollution in large area using hyperspectral remote sensing technology. However, the precision of pollution model needs to be improved.
20038048	Site-specific variable pesticide application is one of the major precision crop production management operations. Rice blast is a severe threat for rice production. Traditional chemistry methods can do the accurate crop disease identification, however they are time-consuming, require being executed by professionals and are of high cost. Crop disease identification and classification by human sight need special crop protection knowledge, and is low efficient. To obtain fast, reliable, accurate rice blast disease information is essential for achieving effective site-specific pesticide applications and crop management. The present paper describes a multi-spectral leaf blast identification and classification image sensor, which uses three channels of crop leaf and canopy images. The objective of this work was to develop and evaluate an algorithm under simplified lighting conditions for identifying damaged rice plants by the leaf blast using digital color images. Based on the results obtained from this study, the seed blast identification accuracy can be achieved at 95%, and the leaf blast identification accuracy can be achieved at 90% during the rice growing season. Thus it can be concluded that multi-spectral camera can provide sufficient information to perform reasonable rice leaf blast estimation.
20038165	Superparamagnetic single crystal single domain Co nanoparticles of 6 nm in diameter evaporated onto highly pyrolytic oriented graphite spontaneously self-assemble into super structures with an elongated shape. These structures have been studied by optical and scanning electron microscopies, atomic and magnetic force microscopy, electron dispersive X-ray analysis, and SQUID magnetometry. We propose that the weak dipolar interactions between superparamagnetic dipoles of the cobalt nanoparticles are responsible for the formation of these structures when the dipolar magnetic interactions are strong enough to influence the general process of self-assembly dominated by van der Waals forces between neighboring nanoparticles and between nanoparticles and the substrate during evaporation of the solvent.
20038691	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is, on a global scale, one of the most important food crops. Although endophytic fungi and bacteria associated with rice have been investigated, little is known about the endophytic fungi of wild rice (Oryza granulate) in China. Here we studied the root endophytic mycobiota residing in roots of O. granulate by the use of an integrated approach consisting of microscopy, cultivation, ecological indices, and direct PCR. Microscopy confirmed the ubiquitousness of dark septate endophytes (DSEs) and sclerotium-like structures in root tissues. Isolations from 204 root segments from 15 wild rice plants yielded 58 isolates, for which 31 internal transcribed spacer (ITS)-based genotypes were recorded. The best BLAST match indicated that 34.5% of all taxa encountered may represent hitherto undescribed species. Most of the fungi were isolated with a very low frequency. Calculation of ecological indices and estimation of taxon accumulation curves indicated a high diversity of fungal species. A culture-independent approach was also performed to analyze the endophytic fungal community. Three individual clone libraries were constructed. Using a threshold of 90% similarity, 35 potentially different sequences (phylotypes) were found among 186 positive clones. Phylogenetic analysis showed that frequently detected clones were classified as Basidiomycota, and 60.2% of total analyzed clones were affiliated with unknown taxa. Exophiala, Cladophialophora, Harpophora, Periconia macrospinosa, and the Ceratobasidium/Rhizoctonia complex may act as potential DSE groups. A comparison of the fungal communities characterized by the two approaches demonstrated distinctive fungal groups, and only a few taxa overlapped. Our findings indicate a complex and rich endophytic fungal consortium in wild rice roots, thus offering a potential bioresource for establishing a novel model of plant-fungal mutualistic interactions.
20038961	Although AGAMOUS-LIKE6 (AGL6) MADS-box genes are ancient with wide distributions in gymnosperms and angiosperms, their functions remain poorly understood. Here, we show the biological role of the AGL6-like gene, OsMADS6, in specifying floral organ and meristem identities in rice (Oryza sativa L.). OsMADS6 was strongly expressed in the floral meristem at early stages. Subsequently, OsMADS6 transcripts were mainly detectable in paleas, lodicules, carpels and the integument of ovule, as well as in the receptacle. Compared to wild type plants, osmads6 mutants displayed altered palea identity, extra glume-like or mosaic organs, abnormal carpel development and loss of floral meristem determinacy. Strikingly, mutation of a SEPALLATA (SEP)-like gene, OsMADS1 (LHS1), enhanced the defect of osmads6 flowers, and no inner floral organs or glume-like structures were observed in whorls 2 and 3 of osmads1-z osmads6-1 flowers. Furthermore, the osmads1-z osmads6-1 double mutants developed severely indeterminate floral meristems. Our finding, therefore, suggests that the ancient OsMADS6 gene is able to specify "floral state" by determining floral organ and meristem identities in monocot crop rice together with OsMADS1.
20039013	The heavy metal cadmium (Cd) is highly toxic to humans and can enter food chains from contaminated crop fields. Understanding the molecular mechanisms of Cd accumulation in crop species will aid production of safe Cd-free food. Here, we identified a single recessive gene that allowed higher Cd translocation in rice, and also determined the chromosomal location of the gene. The Cd hyperaccumulator rice variety Cho-Ko-Koku showed 3.5-fold greater Cd translocation than the no-accumulating variety Akita 63 under hydroponics. Analysis of an F(2) population derived from these cultivars gave a 1:3 segregation ratio for high:low Cd translocation. This indicates that a single recessive gene controls the high Cd translocation phenotype. A QTL analysis identified a single QTL, qCdT7, located on chromosome 7. On a Cd-contaminated field, Cd accumulation in the F(2) population showed continuous variation with considerable transgression. Three QTLs for Cd accumulation were identified and the peak of the most effective QTL mapped to the same region as qCdT7. Our data indicate that Cd translocation mediated by the gene on qCdT7 plays an important role in Cd accumulation on contaminated soil.
20039016	Thailand is the number one global exporter and among the top five producers of rice in the world. A significant increase in anthropogenic contamination in agricultural soils over the past few decades has lead to concerns with cadmium and its uptake in rice. The cadmium levels in Thai rice from different sources/areas were determined and used to estimate the potential health risks to consumers. The cadmium concentration in the commercial rice samples ranged from below the detection limit to 0.016 mg/kg. The cadmium concentrations in the contaminated rice samples ranged from a low of 0.007 mg/kg to a high of 0.579 mg/kg. Five of the calculated values exceed the proposed PTWI, with one value almost three times higher and two values almost double. The three highly elevated values are certainly a concern from a health standpoint. Ultimately, action is required to address the health implications resulting from the cadmium contamination in agricultural soils used for rice production in a few select areas of Thailand. Overall, this study indicates that the vast majority of rice produced, consumed and exported by Thailand is safe pertaining to cadmium content.
20039138	Rice and oat flours were analyzed as media for the production of conidia by M. anisopliae var. lepidiotum. The presence of peptone increased conidia yield regardless of the substrate used; however, the highest yield was achieved on oat flour media. The effect of oxygen on conidia production using oat-peptone medium was also studied at two levels: Normal atmosphere (21% O(2)) and Oxygen-rich pulses (26% O(2)). Maximum conidia production (4.25 x 10(7) conidia cm(-2)) was achieved using 26% O(2) pulses after 156 h of culture, which was higher than 100% relative to conidial levels under normal atmosphere. Conidia yield per gram of biomass was 2.6 times higher with 26% O(2) (1.12 x 10(7) conidia mg(-1)). Conidia quality parameters, such as germination and hydrophobicity, did not show significant differences (P < 0.05) between those treatments. Bioassays parameters, using Tenebrio molitor adults, were analyzed for conidia obtained in both atmospheres and data were fitted to an exponential model. The specific mortality rates were 2.22 and 1.26 days(-1), whereas lethal times for 50% mortality were 3.90 and 4.31 days, for 26% O(2) pulses and 21% O(2) atmosphere, respectively. These results are relevant for production processes since an oxygen increase allowed superior levels of conidia by M. anisopliae without altering quality parameters and virulence toward Tenebrio molitor adults.
20039179	GT factors constitute a plant-specific transcription factor family with a conserved trihelix DNA-binding domain. In this study, comprehensive sequence analysis suggested that 26 putative GT factors exist in rice. Phylogenetic analysis revealed three distinctive subfamilies (GTalpha, GTbeta, and GTgamma) of plant GT factors and each subfamily has a unique composition of predicted motifs. We characterized the OsGTgamma-1 gene, a typical member of the GTgamma subfamily in rice. This gene encodes a protein containing a conserved trihelix domain, and the OsGTgamma-1:GFP fusion protein was targeted to nuclei of rice cells. The transcript level of OsGTgamma-1 was strongly induced by salt stress and slightly induced by drought and cold stresses and abscisic acid treatment. Two other members of the GTgamma subfamily, OsGTgamma-2 and OsGTgamma-3, were also induced by most of the abiotic stresses. These results suggested that the genes of the GTgamma subfamily in rice may be involved in stress responses. A homozygous mutant osgtgamma-1 (with T-DNA inserted in the promoter region of OsGTgamma-1) showed more sensitive to salt stress than wild-type rice. Overexpression of OsGTgamma-1 in rice enhanced salt tolerance at the seedling stage. This evidence suggests that the OsGTgamma subfamily may participate in the regulation of stress tolerance in rice.
20039181	In sexually reproducing angiosperms, double fertilization initiates seed development, giving rise to two fertilization products, the embryo and the endosperm. In the endosperm, a terminal nutritive tissue that supports embryo growth, certain genes are expressed differentially depending on their parental origin, and this genomic imbalance is required for proper seed formation. This parent-of-origin effect on gene expression, called genomic imprinting, is controlled epigenetically through histone modifications and DNA methylation. In the sexual model plant Arabidopsis, the Polycomb group (PcG) genes of the plant Fertilization Independent Seed (FIS)-class control genomic imprinting by specifically silencing maternal or paternal target alleles through histone modifications. Mutations in FIS genes can lead to a bypass in the requirement of fertilization for the initiation of endosperm development and seed abortion. In this review, we discuss the role of the FIS complex in establishing and maintaining genomic imprinting, focusing on recent advances in elucidating the expression and function of FIS-related genes in maize, rice, and Hieracium, and particularly including apomictic Hieracium species that do not require paternal contribution and thus form seeds asexually. Surprisingly, not all FIS-mediated functions described in Arabidopsis are conserved. However, the function of some PcG components are required for viable seed formation in seeds formed via sexual and asexual processes (apomixis) in Hieracium, suggesting a conservation of the seed viability function in some eudicots.
20039193	A number of basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factors are known to function in stress signaling in plants but few have thus far been functionally characterized in rice. In our current study in rice, we have newly isolated and characterized the OsABF1 (Oryza sativa ABA responsive element binding factor 1) gene that encodes a bZIP transcription factor. Its expression in seedling shoots and roots was found to be induced by various abiotic stress treatments such as anoxia, salinity, drought, oxidative stress, cold and abscisic acid (ABA). Subcellular localization analysis in maize protoplasts using GFP fusion vectors indicated that OsABF1 is a nuclear protein. In a yeast experiment, OsABF1 was shown to bind to ABA responsive elements (ABREs) and its N-terminal region was necessary to transactivate the downstream reporter gene. The homozygous T-DNA insertional mutants Osabf1-1 and Osabf1-2 were more sensitive in response to drought and salinity treatments than wild type plants. Furthermore, the upregulated expression of some ABA/stress-regulated genes in response to ABA treatment was suppressed in these Osabf1 mutants. Our current results thus suggest that OsABF1 is involved in abiotic stress responses and ABA signaling in rice.
20040065	Although reports on a gene for 1-amino-cyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) oxidase (ACO1) in rice (Oryza sativa L.) suggest that high levels of its transcript are associated with internode elongation of deep-water rice during submergence, the role of ACO1 in rice development is largely unknown. The tissue-specificity of ACO1 expression indicated that its transcript significantly accumulated in lower parts of elongating internodes at the heading stage. Histochemical analysis and in situ hybridization showed that the ACO1 expression was localized in the basal parts of leaf sheaths immediately above nodes or the lower parts of elongating internodes. To further examine the role of ACO1, ACO1-deficient (aco1) and overexpressing (ACO1-OX) mutants were characterized. The total length of the elongated internodes of aco1 mutants was slightly shorter than that of wild-type plants and that of ACO1-OX mutants was longer. Interestingly, expression of the ACC synthase gene ACS1 and ethylene signalling gene OsEIN2 was up-regulated in the aco1 mutants. This study suggests that the ACO1 has a little effect on internode elongation at the heading stage, and that up-regulation of the ACS1 and OsEIN2 expression may attenuate inhibition of internode elongation.
20040184	This study was carried out to select isolates of the entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana with pathogenic potential to control the Rhipicephalus (Boophilus) microplus tick. The effectiveness of thirty isolates was first tested at a concentration of 5 x 108 conidia.mL(-1). Of these, eight were evaluated (IBCB01, IBCB02, IBCB07, IBCB17, IBCB21, IBCB74, IBCB149, IBCB165) and showed an effectiveness between 90 and 99%; thirteen (IBCB03, IBCB14, IBCB16, IBCB24, IBCB95, IBCB97, IBCB102, IBCB141, IBCB146, IBCB147, IBCB150, IBCB154, IBCB157) between 80 and 89,5%; six (IBCB47, IBCB75, IBCB84, IBCB145, IBCB161, IBCB164) between 70 and 79%, and only two (IBCB13 and IBCB143) had lower pathogenicity (70% or below). In the second step of the study, the five more effective strains in the first phase of the experiment (IBCB01, IBCB07, IBCB21, IBCB66, IBCB165) were analyzed comparatively. Based on in vitro results, it can be concluded that IBCB66 and IBCB21 are the isolates with higher potential for field control of R. (B.) microplus. IBCB01, IBCB07, IBCB21, IBCB66 e IBCB165 isolates were submitted to a conidial production test using a rice-based substrate. The best mass production of the entomopathogenic fungus was obtained with the IBCB66 strain.
20040584	The d1 mutant, which is deficient for the heterotrimeric G-protein alpha subunit (Galpha) gene of rice, shows dwarfism and sets small round seeds. To determine whether dwarfism in d1 is due to a reduction in cell number or to shortened cell length, the cell number of the leaf sheath, the internode, the root and the lemma was compared between Nipponbare, a wild-type rice and d1-5, a d1 allele derived from Nipponbare. Our results indicate that the cell number was reduced in all organs analyzed in d1-5. In addition, cell enlargement was found in roots and lemma of d1-5, although the organ length in d1-5 was shorter than that of wild-type rice. These results suggest that rice Galpha participates in cell proliferation in rice. Western blot analyses using anti-Galpha antibody and RT-PCR analyses indicate that Galpha is mostly expressed in the developing organs. Galpha promoter activity studies using the GUS reporter gene confirmed that the expression of Galpha was highest in developing organs. We conclude that rice Galpha participates in the regulation of cell number in a developmental stage-dependent manner.
20041226	Leaf stripe of barley, caused by Pyrenophora graminea, is an important seed-borne disease in organically grown as well as in conventionally grown Nordic and Mediterranean barley districts. Two barley segregating populations represented by 103 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of the cross L94 (susceptible) x Vada (resistant) and 194 RILs of the cross Arta (susceptible) x Hordeum spontaneum 41-1 (resistant) were analysed with two highly virulent leaf stripe isolates, Dg2 and Dg5, to identify loci for P. graminea resistance. A major gene with its positive allele contributed by Vada and H. spontaneum 41-1 was detected in both populations and for both pathogen isolates on chromosome 2HL explaining 44.1 and 91.8% R (2), respectively for Dg2 and Dg5 in L94 x Vada and 97.8 and 96.1% R (2), respectively for Dg2 and Dg5 in Arta x H. spontaneum 41-1. Common markers in the gene region of the two populations enabled map comparison and highlighted an overlapping for the region of the resistance locus. Since the map position of the resistance locus identified in this report is the same as that for the leaf stripe resistance gene Rdg1a, mapped earlier in Alf and derived from the 'botanical' barley line H. laevigatum, we propose that leaf stripe resistance in Vada and H. spontaneum 41-1 is governed by the same gene, namely by Rdg1a, and that Rdg1a resistance could be traced back to H. spontaneum, the progenitor of cultivated barley. PCR-based molecular markers that can be used for marker-assisted selection (MAS) of Rdg1a were identified. An Rdg1a syntenic interval with the rice chromosome arm 4L was identified on the basis of rice orthologs of EST-based barley markers. Analysis of the rice genes annotated into the syntenic interval did not reveal sequences strictly belonging to the major class (nucleotide-binding site plus leucine-rich repeat) of the resistance genes. Nonetheless, four genes coding for domains that are present in the major disease-resistance genes, namely receptor-like protein kinase and ATP/GTP-binding proteins, were identified together with a homolog of the barley powdery mildew resistance gene mlo. Three (out of five) homologs of these genes were mapped in the Rdg1a region in barley and the mlo homolog map position was tightly associated with the LOD score peak in both populations.
20041794	The effects of a preparation of combined glutathione-enriched yeast (GEY) and rice embryo/soybean (RES) extracts (20:1), GEY/RES, on experimentally induced ethanol hangover were investigated in male Sprague-Dawley rats. To evaluate the preventive effects on hangover, rats were orally administered GEY/RES (50/2.5, 100/5, or 200/10 mg/kg) for 2 weeks. At 30 minutes after the final treatment, they were challenged with 3 mL/kg ethanol (15 mL of 20% in water/kg). The blood concentrations of alcohol and acetaldehyde were analyzed up to 7 hours postchallenge. Hepatic mRNA expression levels of alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH), cytochrome P450 type 2E1 (CYP2E1), and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH), were determined by real-time polymerase chain reaction. Additional rats were challenged with ethanol and, 60 minutes later, administered GEY/RES to evaluate alcohol clearance. Pretreatment with GEY/RES for 2 weeks reduced the blood concentrations of alcohol and acetaldehyde in a dose-dependent manner, lowering by 29.5% and 54.6% at the highest dose (200/10 mg/kg), respectively. The expressions of mRNAs for ADH and ALDH, the major alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, were markedly increased in the livers of rats administered GEY/RES for 2 weeks, whereas CYP2E1 mRNA was suppressed. Postchallenge treatment with GEY/RES enhanced the alcohol clearance rate by lowering blood concentrations of alcohol and acetaldehyde by 24% and 26.6%, respectively, for the highest dose group. GEY/RES remarkably eliminated 2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl hydrate radical and FeCl(3)-mediated lipid peroxidation in vitro and attenuated hepatic lipid accumulation following ethanol administration in vivo. Therefore, it is suggested that GEY/RES reduces the blood concentrations of alcohol and acetaldehyde not only by modulating alcohol-metabolizing enzymes, but also by exerting its antioxidant activity, and that GEY/RES could be a promising candidate for improvements of alcoholic hangover.
20042078	The beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene reporter system is one of the most effective and employed techniques in the study of gene regulation in plant molecular biology. Improving protocols for GUS assays have rendered the original method described by Jefferson amenable to various requirements and conditions, but the serious limitation caused by inhibitors of the enzyme activity in plant tissues has thus far been underestimated. We report that inhibitors of GUS activity are ubiquitous in organ tissues of Arabidopsis, tobacco and rice, and significantly bias quantitative assessment of GUS activity in plant transformation experiments. Combined with previous literature reports on non-model species, our findings suggest that inhibitors may be common components of plant cells, with variable affinity towards the E. coli enzyme. The reduced inhibitory capacity towards the plant endogenous GUS discredits the hypothesis of a regulatory role of these compounds in plant cells, and their effect on the bacterial enzyme is better interpreted as a side effect due to their interaction with GUS during the assay. This is likely to have a bearing also on histochemical analyses, leading to inaccurate evaluations of GUS expression. In order to achieve reliable results, inhibitor activity should be routinely tested during quantitative GUS assays. Two separate methods to correct the measured activity of the transgenic and endogenous GUS are presented.
20042285	The decolorization of Acid Red 1 (AR1) in aqueous solution was investigated by Fenton-like process. The effect of different reaction parameters such as different iron ions loading on rice husk ash (RHA), dosage of catalyst, initial pH, the initial hydrogen peroxide concentration ([H(2)O(2)](o)), the initial concentration of AR1 ([AR1](o)) and the reaction temperature on the decolorization of AR1 was studied. The optimal reacting conditions were found to be 0.070 wt.% of iron (III) oxide loading on RHA, dosage of catalyst=5.0 g L(-1), initial pH=2.0, [H(2)O(2)](o)=8 mM, [AR1](o)=50 mg L(-1) at temperature 30 degrees C. Under optimal condition, 96% decolorization efficiency of AR1 was achieved within 120 min of reaction.
20043150	A novel beta-glucosidase (BGL)-producing strain was isolated and identified as Penicillium purpurogenum KJS506 based on its morphology and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA gene sequence. When rice straw and corn steep powder were used as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, the maximal BGL activity of 12.3 U ml(-1), one of the highest levels among BGL-producing microorganisms was observed. The optimum temperature and pH for BGL production were 32 degrees C and 4, respectively. An extracellular BGL was purified to homogeneity by sequential chromatography of P. purpurogenum culture supernatants, and the purified BGL showed higher activity (V (max) = 934 U mg protein(-1)) than most BGLs from other sources. The complete ORF of bgl3 was cloned from P. purpurogenum by a modified thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction. The bgl3 gene consists of a 2,571-bp ORF and encodes a putative protein containing 856 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 89,624 Da. The putative gene product was identified as a member of glycoside hydrolase family 3. The present results should contribute to improved industrial production of BGL by P. purpurogenum KJS506.
20043354	Detection of crop health conditions plays an important role in making control strategies of crop disease and insect damage and gaining high-quality production at late growth stages. In this study, hyperspectral reflectance of rice panicles was measured at the visible and near-infrared regions. The panicles were divided into three groups according to health conditions: healthy panicles, empty panicles caused by Nilaparvata lugens Stål, and panicles infected with Ustilaginoidea virens. Low order derivative spectra, namely, the first and second orders, were obtained using different techniques. Principal component analysis (PCA) was performed to obtain the principal component spectra (PCS) of the foregoing derivative and raw spectra to reduce the reflectance spectral dimension. Support vector classification (SVC) was employed to discriminate the healthy, empty, and infected panicles, with the front three PCS as the independent variables. The overall accuracy and kappa coefficient were used to assess the classification accuracy of SVC. The overall accuracies of SVC with PCS derived from the raw, first, and second reflectance spectra for the testing dataset were 96.55%, 99.14%, and 96.55%, and the kappa coefficients were 94.81%, 98.71%, and 94.82%, respectively. Our results demonstrated that it is feasible to use visible and near-infrared spectroscopy to discriminate health conditions of rice panicles.
20044942	Malaria is a leading cause of disease burden in Uganda, although surprisingly few contemporary, age-stratified data exist on malaria epidemiology in the country. This report presents results from a total population survey of malaria infection and intervention coverage in a rural area of eastern Uganda, with a specific focus on how risk factors differ between demographic groups in this population. In 2008, a cross-sectional survey was conducted in four contiguous villages in Mulanda, sub-county in Tororo district, eastern Uganda, to investigate the epidemiology and risk factors of Plasmodium species infection. All permanent residents were invited to participate, with blood smears collected from 1,844 individuals aged between six months and 88 years (representing 78% of the population). Demographic, household and socio-economic characteristics were combined with environmental data using a Geographical Information System. Hierarchical models were used to explore patterns of malaria infection and identify individual, household and environmental risk factors. Overall, 709 individuals were infected with Plasmodium, with prevalence highest among 5-9 year olds (63.5%). Thin films from a random sample of 20% of parasite positive participants showed that 94.0% of infections were Plasmodium falciparum and 6.0% were P. malariae; no other species or mixed infections were seen. In total, 68% of households owned at least one mosquito although only 27% of school-aged children reported sleeping under a net the previous night. In multivariate analysis, infection risk was highest amongst children aged 5-9 years and remained high in older children. Risk of infection was lower for those that reported sleeping under a bed net the previous night and living more than 750 m from a rice-growing area. After accounting for clustering within compounds, there was no evidence for an association between infection prevalence and socio-economic status, and no evidence for spatial clustering. These findings demonstrate that mosquito net usage remains inadequate and is strongly associated with risk of malaria among school-aged children. Infection risk amongst adults is influenced by proximity to potential mosquito breeding grounds. Taken together, these findings emphasize the importance of increasing net coverage, especially among school-aged children.
20045389	The present study investigated cDNA chimeras using two closely related members of the rice secretory protein gene family as an example. The chimeras detected in initial cDNA products that were amplified using LA Taq polymerase involved two categories: single-site type and multiple-site type with the frequency being about 20% and 3%, respectively. Further investigation revealed that PCR buffer additives and type of DNA polymerase had a major effect on the formation of chimeras in mixed-template amplification. Heteroduplex repair by microbial DNA repair systems in cDNA cloning was confirmed to produce the chimeras too, but it was not the major source.
20045390	Previous genetic studies have indicated that the type L alpha-glucan phosphorylase (Pho1) has an essential role during the initiation process of starch biosynthesis during rice seed development. To gain insight into its role in starch metabolism, we characterized the enzymatic properties of the Pho1 recombinant form. Pho1 has significantly higher catalytic efficiency toward both linear and branched alpha-glucans in the synthesis direction than in the degradation direction with equilibrium constants for the various substrates ranging from 13 to 45. Pho1 activity is strongly inhibited by its own reaction product (Pi) in the synthesis reaction (K(i)=0.69 mM) when amylopectin is the primer substrate, but this inhibition is less pronounced (K(i)=14.2 mM) when short alpha-glucan chains are used as primers. Interestingly, even in the presence of Pi alone, Pho1 not only degrades maltohexaose but also extends them to synthesize longer MOSs. Production of a broad spectrum of MOSs (G4-G19) was stimulated by both Pi and Glc1P in an additive fashion. Thus, even under physiological conditions of high Pi/Glc1P, Pho1 extends the chain length of short MOSs which can then be used as subsequent primer by starch synthase activities. As ADP-glucose strongly inhibits Pho1 activity, Pho1 likely operates only during the initial stage and not during maturation phase of starch synthesis.
20045585	The consumption of paddy rice (Oryza sativa L.) is a major inorganic arsenic exposure pathway in S.E. Asia. A multi-location survey was undertaken in Guangdong Province, South China to assess arsenic accumulation and speciation in 2 rice cultivars, one an Indica and the other a hybrid Indica. The results showed that arsenic concentrations in rice tissue increased in the order grain < husk < straw < root. Rice grain arsenic content of 2 rice cultivars was significant different and correlated with phosphorus concentration and molar ratio of P/As in shoot, being higher for the Indica cultivar than for the hybrid Indica, which suggests altering shoot phosphorus status as a promising route for breeding rice cultivars with reduced grain arsenic. Speciation of grain arsenic, performed using HPLC-ICP-MS, identified inorganic arsenic as the dominant arsenic species present in the rice grain.
20047695	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a new class of small, endogenous RNAs that play a regulatory role in the cell by negatively affecting gene expression at the post-transcriptional level. miRNAs have been shown to control numerous genes involved in various biological and metabolic processes. There have been extensive studies on discovering miRNAs and analyzing their functions in model species, such as Arabidopsis and rice. Increasing investigations have been performed on important agricultural crops including soybean, conifers, and Phaselous vulgaris but no studies have been reported on discovering peanut miRNAs using a cloning strategy. In this study, we employed the next generation high through-put Solexa sequencing technology to clone and identify both conserved and species-specific miRNAs in peanuts. Next generation high through-put Solexa sequencing showed that peanuts have a complex small RNA population and the length of small RNAs varied, 24-nt being the predominant length for a majority of the small RNAs. Combining the deep sequencing and bioinformatics, we discovered 14 novel miRNA families as well as 75 conserved miRNAs in peanuts. All 14 novel peanut miRNAs are considered to be species-specific because no homologs have been found in other plant species except ahy-miRn1, which has a homolog in soybean. qRT-PCR analysis demonstrated that both conserved and peanut-specific miRNAs are expressed in peanuts. This study led to the discovery of 14 novel and 22 conserved miRNA families from peanut. These results show that regulatory miRNAs exist in agronomically important peanuts and may play an important role in peanut growth, development, and response to environmental stress.
20047795	A pot experiment in six open-top chambers with two levels of CO(2) and two multi-metal contaminated soils was conducted to investigate combined effects of elevated CO(2) levels and metals (Cu and Cd) on rice. Elevated CO(2) significantly increased the total dry weight biomass of six Chinese rice by 20-108 and 32-142% for low and high levels of contaminated soils, respectively. We observed dilution/little varied phenomena in grain Cu concentration in six rice varieties grown on both contaminated soils under elevated CO(2). We found significantly higher Cd concentrations in the parts of three rice varieties under elevated CO(2), but lower levels for the others. Two major conclusions can be drawn from our study: (1) rice varieties with significantly increased biomass and metal uptake under elevated CO(2) exhibit greater potential for phytoextraction and (2) given expected global increases in CO(2) concentration, CO(2)-induced accumulation of metals in rice might be a component contributing to the potential health risk in the future, with Cd being a more important threat to human health than Cu.
20047946	We determined the nucleotide sequence of the entire genome of a diazotrophic endophyte, Azospirillum sp. B510. Strain B510 is an endophytic bacterium isolated from stems of rice plants (Oryza sativa cv. Nipponbare). The genome of B510 consisted of a single chromosome (3,311,395 bp) and six plasmids, designated as pAB510a (1,455,109 bp), pAB510b (723,779 bp), pAB510c (681,723 bp), pAB510d (628,837 bp), pAB510e (537,299 bp), and pAB510f (261,596 bp). The chromosome bears 2893 potential protein-encoding genes, two sets of rRNA gene clusters (rrns), and 45 tRNA genes representing 37 tRNA species. The genomes of the six plasmids contained a total of 3416 protein-encoding genes, seven sets of rrns, and 34 tRNAs representing 19 tRNA species. Eight genes for plasmid-specific tRNA species are located on either pAB510a or pAB510d. Two out of eight genomic islands are inserted in the plasmids, pAB510b and pAB510e, and one of the islands is inserted into trnfM-CAU in the rrn located on pAB510e. Genes other than the nif gene cluster that are involved in N(2) fixation and are homologues of Bradyrhizobium japonicum USDA110 include fixABCX, fixNOQP, fixHIS, fixG, and fixLJK. Three putative plant hormone-related genes encoding tryptophan 2-monooxytenase (iaaM) and indole-3-acetaldehyde hydrolase (iaaH), which are involved in IAA biosynthesis, and ACC deaminase (acdS), which reduces ethylene levels, were identified. Multiple gene-clusters for tripartite ATP-independent periplasmic-transport systems and a diverse set of malic enzymes were identified, suggesting that B510 utilizes C(4)-dicarboxylate during its symbiotic relationship with the host plant.
20048318	Water quality concerns have arisen related to rice (Oryza sativa L.) field drain water, which has the potential to contribute large amounts of dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and total dissolved solids (TDS) to the Sacramento River. Field-scale losses of DOC or TDS have yet to be quantified. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the seasonal concentrations of DOC and TDS in rice field drain water and irrigation canals, quantify seasonal fluxes and flow-weighted (FW) concentrations of DOC and TDS, and determine the main drivers of DOC and TDS fluxes. Two rice fields with different straw management practices (incorporation vs. burning) were monitored at each of four locations in the Sacramento Valley. Fluxes of DOC ranged from 3.7 to 34.6 kg ha(-1) during the growing season (GS) and from 0 to 202 kg ha(-1) during the winter season (WS). Straw management had a significant interaction effect with season, as the greatest DOC concentrations were observed during winter flooding of straw incorporated fields. Fluxes and concentrations of TDS were not significantly affected by either straw management or season. Total seasonal water flux accounted for 90 and 88% of the variability in DOC flux during the GS and WS, respectively. Peak DOC concentrations occurred at the onset of drainflow; therefore, changes in irrigation management may reduce peak DOC concentrations and thereby DOC losses. However, the timing of peak DOC concentrations from rice fields suggest that rice field drainage water is not the cause of peak DOC concentrations in the Sacramento River.
20048489	The objectives of this study were to determine the long-term efficacy and safety of periarticular hyaluronic acid (HA) injections in acute lateral ankle sprain. A randomized, controlled, prospective trial in a primary sports medicine and emergency practice involved 158 competitive athletes who suffered an acute grade 1 or 2 lateral ankle sprain, and who were randomly assigned within 48 hours of injury. Patients were randomly assigned at baseline to periarticular injection with HA + standard of care (rest, ice, elevation, and compression [RICE]) or placebo injection (PL) + standard of care (RICE) treatment at baseline assessment and day 4 after injury. Follow-up was at 30, 90, and 712 days after treatment. Assessments at baseline and days 4, 8, 30, 90, and 712 included visual analogue scale (VAS) (0-10 cm) pain on weight bearing and walking 20 m, patient global assessment of ankle injury (5-point categorical scale), patient satisfaction with treatment (5-point categorical scale), time to return to pain-free and disability-free sport, recurrent ankle sprain, total number of days missing from primary sport activity, and adverse events (AEs). Time to intervention was 39 +/- 4 hours with no difference between groups. A significant reduction in VAS pain on both weight bearing and walking was observed at all follow-up assessments for HA compared with PL (P < 0.001). Time to pain-free and disability-free return to sport was 11 (+/- 8) versus 17 (+/- 8) days for HA and PL, respectively (P < 0.05). At 24 months, in the PL versus HA group, there were 2 versus 0 lower limb fractures, 16 versus 7 second ankle sprains (P < 0.05), 3 versus 1 third ankle sprains, and a significantly greater number of days missing primary sport activity (41 vs 21; P < 0.002). Significantly greater patient satisfaction was also observed for HA versus PL at all follow-up assessments. No serious AEs were recorded throughout follow-up. Periarticular HA treatment for acute ankle sprain was highly satisfactory in the short and long term versus PL. This was associated with reduced pain, more rapid return to sport, fewer recurrent ankle sprains, fewer missed days from sport, and with few associated AEs to 24 months.
20049369	To compare the evolution of weight loss and complications in the patients subjected to two techniques of bariatric surgery (RVG: ring vertical gastroplasty and BP: gastric by pass type Capella) carried out in HospitalLa Paz during the years 2000 and 2001. 51 patients (27 RVG and 24 BP) were operated, and 44 (22 RVG and 22 BP) completed the follow-up at 1 year, 43 (22 RVG and 21 BP) at 2 years, and 28 (10 RVG and 18 BP) at 5 years. The parameters analyzed at 6, 12, 18, 24 months and 5 years were BMI (body mass index), EI (effectiveness index), % LW (percentage of lost weight), % LEW (percentage of lost excess of weight), alimentary intolerances, digestive complications, surgical complications, physical activity and modification of alimentary habits. An important reduction of weight was observed at 6 months with both techniques (% LEW: 45.8% with RVG and 53.4% with BP). After 12 months the loss of weight was significantly higher with BP (% LEW at 2 years: 59.5% with RVG and 83% with BP). However, at 5 years a weight recovery was detected in both groups of patients. At 12 months the patients subjected to RVG tolerated worse the meat and at 18 months the group of BP tolerated worse the rice. There were not significant differences in other parameters. The long term results are better with BP than with RVG. There is a reduction of effectiveness at 5 years that could be related with the modification of alimentary habits and with giving up attendance to the nurse consultation.
20049557	In the standard plant transformation practice, transgene copy number is often inversely correlated with transgene expression. As the integration locus generated by standard methods is mostly complex, consisting of both full-length and partial copies arranged in direct or inverted repeat configurations, it is difficult to parse the effect of copy number and locus structure. To clearly study the effect of transgene copy number on gene expression, it is important to control the locus structure and integrate full-length copies. In this study, the effect of transgene copy number on transgene expression in plant cells was determined using rice callus as a model. To generate full-length integrations, Cre-lox-mediated site-specific gene integration method was used. Transgenic rice lines consisting of one to three copies of beta-glucuronidase or green fluorescent protein genes were developed. Site-specific integration lines were characterized and subjected to expression analysis. Lines containing two or three copies of either reporter genes displayed 2-4 times higher expression compared to the single-copy lines. Therefore, dosage-dependent transgene expression can be obtained by integrating full-length copies, and site-specific gene integration approach can serve as an efficient tool for generating precise multi-copy integrations.
2004984	Thirteen food-allergic dogs were studied to evaluate the efficacy of feeding a commercially available egg and rice diet, intradermal skin testing, and serologic testing by ELISA for diagnosing and/or characterizing food hypersensitivity. Feeding of a home-cooked whole lamb meat and rice diet for 3 weeks, followed by challenge with each dog's regular diet, served as the standard for diagnosing food hypersensitivity. Each dog underwent provocative testing with 6 individual ingredients to determine as many of its dietary allergens as possible. Prior to skin testing and serologic testing by ELISA, most dogs had been recently exposed to the offending diet and subsequently manifested clinical signs of allergy. All dogs that tolerated the aforementioned commercial diet were exposed to it for at least 7 weeks; 84.6% of food-hypersensitive dogs ate the commercial diet with impunity. Of the 2 reactors to the commercial diet, only 1 became pruritic in response to provocation testing with chicken eggs. Low sensitivity and high specificity were found for skin testing and the ELISA, indicating a lack of true- and false-positive reactions. Neither the positive nor negative predictive values adequately predicted positive and negative reactions, respectively, for either test. On the basis of these results, the commercial diet, skin testing, and anti-IgE ELISA cannot replace an owner-prepared food elimination diet for food hypersensitivity testing in dogs.
20050559	In order to understand the mechanisms on the variation between rice cultivars in Cd uptake and accumulation, two pot soil experiments were conducted with typical rice cultivars that varied greatly in soil Cd uptake. The experiments with six rice cultivars showed that the root oxidation abilities of rice differed with rice cultivars and also with types of the cultivars, the cultivars with indica consanguinity were significantly higher than the cultivars with japonica consanguinity. Root oxidation abilities of the rice cultivars correlated positively and significantly (P < 0.01) with their Cd concentrations and Cd quantity accumulations in rice plants. The experiments with two rice cultivars showed that significant differences also existed between the two cultivars in pot soil redox potentials, which of Shan you 63 (higher soil Cd accumulator) were significantly higher than that of Wu yun jing 7 (lower soil Cd accumulator) under different soil Cd levels, but the degrees of the differences varied with soil Cd levels. The differences were larger under soil Cd treatments than the control. The results indicate that root oxidation ability, especially in Cd contaminated soil, is one of the main mechanisms which dominate Cd uptake and accumulation by rice plant.
20050687	Unintended compositional changes in transgenic rice seeds were studied by near-infrared reflectance, GC-MS, HPLC, and ICP-AES coupled with chemometrics strategies. Three kinds of transgenic rice with resistance to fungal diseases or insect pests were comparatively studied with the nontransgenic counterparts in terms of key nutrients such as protein, amino acids, fatty acids, vitamins, elements, and antinutrient phytic acid recommended by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). The compositional profiles were discriminated by chemometrics methods, and the discriminatory compounds were protein, three amino acids, two fatty acids, two vitamins, and several elements. Significance of differences for these compounds was proved by analysis of variance, and the variation extent ranged from 20 to 74% for amino acids, from 19 to 38% for fatty acids, from 25 to 57% for vitamins, from 20 to 50% for elements, and 25% for protein, whereas phytic acid content did not change significantly. The unintended compositional alterations as well as unintended change of physical characteristic in transgenic rice compared with nontransgenic rice might be related to the genetic transformation, the effect of which needs to be elucidated by additional studies.
20050703	Current work investigated the ability of different tea (green, oolong and black teas) in inhibiting human salivary alpha-amylase (HSA) and mammalian alpha-glucosidase (AGH). The inhibitory profiles were correlated to their major polyphenol content (theaflavins and catechins). The fully fermented black tea was demonstrated to be most potent in inhibiting HSA and AGH (IC50 of 0.42 to 0.67 and 0.56 to 0.58 mg of tea leaves/mL respectively). Its capability in retarding the digestion of a real food system (rice noodle) was further elucidated with an in vitro digestion study. Results indicated that black tea was able to retard starch digestion moderately, thereby allowing a gradual reduction of sugar liberation. Polyphenolic profile analysis suggested that the oxidized catechins, theaflavins, may be responsible for its activity. We have found that refractive index (RI) measurement is a rapid, direct, and highly convenient method for quantifying the degree of enzymatic starch digestion and kinetics. The RI method has good linearity range, limit of detection (0.1596 mg/mL, maltose equivalent) and limit of quantitation (0.6312 mg/mL) and was successfully applied in our study.
20050875	We focused on the functional guild of methane oxidizing bacteria (MOB) as model organisms to get deeper insights into microbial biogeography. The pmoA gene was used as a functional and phylogenetic marker for MOB in two approaches: (i) a pmoA database (> 4000 sequences) was evaluated to obtain insights into MOB diversity in Italian rice paddies, and paddy fields worldwide. The results show a wide geographical distribution of pmoA genotypes that seem to be specifically adapted to paddy fields (e.g. Rice Paddy Cluster 1 and Rice Paddy Cluster 2). (ii) On the smaller geographical scale, we designed a factorial experiment including three different locations, two rice varieties and two habitats (soil and roots) within each of three rice fields. Multivariate analysis of terminal restriction fragment analysis profiles revealed different community patterns at the three field sites, located 10-20 km apart. Root samples were characterized by high abundance of type I MOB whereas the rice variety had no effect. With the agronomical practice being nearly identical, historical contingencies might be responsible for the field site differences. Considering a large reservoir of viable yet inactive MOB cells acting as a microbial seed bank, environmental conditions might have selected and activated a different subset at a time thereby shaping the community.
20052428	Malaria control measures such as early diagnosis and treatment, intermittent treatment of pregnant women, impregnated bed nets, indoor spraying and larval control measures are difficult to target specifically because of imprecise estimates of risk at a small-scale level. Ways of estimating local risks for malaria are therefore important. A high-resolution satellite view from the SPOT 5 satellite during 2008 was used to generate a land cover classification in the malaria endemic lowland of North-Western Burkina Faso. For the area of a complete satellite view of 60 x 60 km, a supervised land cover classification was carried out. Ten classes were built and correlated to land cover types known for acting as Anopheles mosquito breeding sites. According to known correlations of Anopheles larvae presence and surface water-related land cover, cultivated areas in the riverine vicinity of Kossi River were shown to be one of the most favourable sites for Anopheles production. Similar conditions prevail in the South of the study region, where clayey soils and higher precipitations benefit the occurrence of surface water. Besides pools, which are often directly detectable, rice fields and occasionally flooded crops represent most appropriate habitats. On the other hand, forests, elevated regions on porous soils, grasslands and the dryer, sandy soils in the north-western part turned out to deliver fewer mosquito breeding opportunities. Potential high and low risks for malaria at the village level can be differentiated from satellite data. While much remains to be done in terms of establishing correlations between remotely sensed risks and malaria disease patterns, this is a potentially useful approach which could lead to more focused disease control programmes.
2005509	Thiamine (vitamin B1) is an essential nutritional component that acts as a coenzyme in the oxidative decarboxylation of alpha-keto acids. It also serves as the connection between the glycolytic cycle and the high energy-producing Krebs (or citric acid) cycle. Unlike other B vitamins, it activates the guanylate cyclase/cyclic guanosine monophosphate (GMP) system but not the adenylate cyclase system. The active coenzyme, thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP) is an antiberiberi substance. Thiamine itself is a pharmacologic antagonist of acetylcholine, which may explain the nerve lesions caused by thiamine deficiency. Liver, pork, yeast, and rice-polishings are rich in thiamine; however, several antithiamine factors are also found in common foods. For example, a thermal labile factor in the viscera of fresh water fish and tea leaves antagonizes thiamine.
20055517	The dissociations of energy-selected di-t-butyl peroxide and di-t-butyl diazene ions have been studied by threshold photoelectron-photoion coincidence (TPEPICO) spectroscopy. Di-t-butyl peroxide ions dissociate via two parallel channels: (1) methyl loss at a 0 K onset (E0) of 9.58 +/- 0.04 eV followed by a sequential dissociation of the daughter ion to produce C4H9O+ and acetone; and (2) the dominant dissociation channel, producing t-butyl ion and t-butyl peroxy radical at an E0 of 9.758 +/- 0.020 eV. Di-t-butyl diazene ions dissociate through three parallel channels: (1) a rearrangement to form isobutene ion; (2) C-N bond cleavage with the charge staying on the t-butyl diazyl species (E0 = 8.069 +/- 0.050 eV); and (3) C-N bond cleavage with the charge instead on the t-butyl (E0 = 8.122 +/- 0.050 eV); the coproduct for this latter channel is a weakly, or possibly unbound, N2...t-butyl structure. Both the peroxide and diazene ion dissociations produce metastable daughters, and the dissociation rates are modeled with two rate theories: the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory and a simplified version of the statistical adiabatic channel model (SSACM). Due to a large kinetic shift, RRKM incorrectly models the peroxide ion rate curve. Using SSACM, the heat of formation of t-butyl peroxy radical is determined to be DeltaH0Kdegrees = - 81.1 +/- 3.9 kJ mol-1, and, using B3LYP/6-311++G(d,p) thermal energy, DeltaH298Kdegrees = - 109.7 +/- 3.9 kJ mol-1. Due to a competitive shift of the higher energy channel onsets, RRKM also incorrectly models the diazene rate curves. The 298 K heat of formation of the t-butyl diazyl ion, which is bound by 14 kJ mol-1, is determined to be 701.2 +/- 5.9 kJ mol-1.
20055578	Strains of Caño Delgadito virus (CADV) and Maporal virus (MAPV) were isolated from 25 (8.9%) of the 280 rodents captured on farms in 1997 in western Venezuela. The results of analyses of laboratory and zoographic data indicated that Alston's cotton rat (Sigmodon alstoni) is the principal host of CADV, horizontal virus transmission is the dominant mode of CADV transmission in Alston's cotton rat in nature, a pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys sp.) is the principal host of MAPV, and the natural host relationships of CADV and MAPV are highly specific.
20055651	ABSTRACT The basidiomycetous fungus Rhizoctonia solani anastomosis group (AG)-1 IA is a major pathogen in Latin America causing sheath blight (SB) of rice. Particularly in Venezuela, the fungus also causes banded leaf and sheath blight (BLSB) on maize, which is considered an emerging disease problem where maize replaced traditional rice-cropping areas or is now planted in adjacent fields. Our goals in this study were to elucidate (i) the effects of host specialization on gene flow between sympatric and allopatric rice and maize-infecting fungal populations and (ii) the reproductive mode of the fungus, looking for evidence of recombination. In total, 375 isolates of R. solani AG1 IA sampled from three sympatric rice and maize fields in Venezuela (Portuguesa State) and two allopatric rice fields from Colombia (Meta State) and Panama (Chiriquí State) were genotyped using 10 microsatellite loci. Allopatric populations from Venezuela, Colombia, and Panama were significantly differentiated (Phi(ST) of 0.16 to 0.34). Partitioning of the genetic diversity indicated differentiation between sympatric populations from different host species, with 17% of the total genetic variation distributed between hosts while only 3 to 6% was distributed geographically among the sympatric Venezuelan fields. We detected symmetrical historical migration between the rice- and the maize-infecting populations from Venezuela. Rice- and maize-derived isolates were able to infect both rice and maize but were more aggressive on their original hosts, consistent with host specialization. Because the maize- and rice-infecting populations are still cross-pathogenic, we postulate that the genetic differentiation was relatively recent and mediated via a host shift. An isolation with migration analysis indicated that the maize-infecting population diverged from the rice-infecting population between 40 and 240 years ago. Our findings also suggest that maize-infecting populations have a mainly recombining reproductive system whereas the rice-infecting populations have a mixed reproductive system in Latin America.
2005610	Food intakes of 157 mothers from four geographical regions in Oman were studied. Rice and wheat breads were the main cereals consumed. Fish was daily consumed by 26% of mothers, whereas meat and chicken were consumed less often. Cow's milk was more frequently consumed than goat's milk. Of mothers, 63% drank carbonated beverages daily, while the traditional drink, laban (butter-milk) was drunk daily by 47% of mothers. Only 19.8% of mothers did not or rarely consumed animal fat. These results suggest that dietary habits of Omani mothers have changed and become more diversified when compared to diet consumed 20 years ago.
20056293	Several genes that encode a chitinase-like protein (called the CTL group) have been identified in Arabidopsis, rice, pea, and cotton. Members of the CTL group have attracted much attention because of their possible role in the biosynthesis of the cell wall in plants. The hot2 mutation in the CTL1 (AtCTL1) gene of Arabidopsis thaliana causes multiple defects in growth and development. The Arabidopsis genome possesses the AtCTL2 gene, which exhibits 70% similarity to AtCTL1 at the amino acid level. We showed that the AtCTL2 gene was predominantly expressed in stems, which was in contrast to the presence of AtCTL1 transcripts in most organs of Arabidopsis. In addition, beta-glucuronidase (GUS) staining was detectable in all tissues of the stem in transgenic plants expressing the AtCTL1::GUS construct, while GUS activity under control of the AtCTL2 promoter was significantly restricted to the xylem and to interfascicular fibers in stems. The phenotypes of atctl2 single mutant and of hot2, atctl2 double mutant plants were significantly similar to those of wild-type and of hot2 single mutant plants, respectively. The expression levels of CESA1 and CESA4 transcripts were not affected in the two single mutants or corresponding double mutant plants, compared with the levels in wild-type plants. The accumulation of lignin in etiolated hypocotyls, however, was increased by mutation of AtCTL2. These findings suggest that AtCTL2 is required for proper cell wall biosynthesis in etiolated seedlings of Arabidopsis.
20056413	Poultry manure and fungal consortium developed by including fungi of genus Aspergillus, Trichoderma and Phanerochaete were evaluated separately to degrade high silica paddy straw. The quality evaluation of composted organic wastes after two months of decomposition revealed that poultry manure amended paddy straw compost had a C:N ratio of 13.06 and germination index of 132%, compared to 15.29 and 114% of its fungal inoculated counterpart. Supplementation of paddy straw with poultry manure was as effective as its bioaugmentation with fungal consortium. The incorporation of poultry manure @ 3 t ha(-1) (T3) and poultry manure amended paddy straw compost @ 3 t ha(-1)+N(60)P(40)K(30) (T4) separately to soil under rice crop for two consecutive years, resulted in improved microbial biomass and different enzymatic activities responsible for nutrient cycling. T3 and T4 treatments recorded a grain yield improvement of 54.87 and 79.26% respectively in 2007 and 79 and 80.2% respectively in 2008 compared to N(120)P(80)K(60).
20057116	The textural properties of cooked rice were investigated in the presence and the absence of gum arabic (GA) and soybean soluble polysaccharide (SSPS). SSPS was more effective in increasing the hardness and in decreasing the stickiness of the rice grains than GA. For both polysaccharides, the increase in hardness was more apparent in the whole body than at the periphery, whereas the decrease in stickiness was more apparent at the periphery than in the whole body. SSPS was more effective in retarding the gelatinization of rice starch and in lowering the elastic characters of the glutinous layer (the materials leached out of the rice grains during cooking) along with a decrease in the amount of amylopectin leached. The textural hardness of cooked rice was determined by the degree of starch gelatinization, whereas the textural stickiness was related to the rheological characters of the glutinous layer and the leaching profile of the starch components.
20057117	The retarding activity of 6-O-dodecanoyl-D-allose against rice growth was higher than that of the octanoate and the decanoate. The activities of 6-O-dodecanoyl-D-glucose, -D-mannose, and -D-galactose against rice seedlings were examined. 6-O-Dodecanoyl-D-allose exhibited the highest activity, suggesting the importance of the alpha-axial hydroxy group at C-3 of D-allose.
20057139	Plants utilize UDP-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf) in the biosynthesis of Araf-containing complex carbohydrates. UDP-Araf is synthesized from UDP-arabinopyranose by UDP-arabinopyranose mutases (UAMs). Here we describe the heterologous expression of rice (Oryza sativa) UAM genes in insect cells and report some of their enzymatic properties. Recombinant UAMs might serve as useful tools for the biosynthesis of UDP-Araf and might be better than chemical synthesis.
20057142	Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) is a popular food supplement. Earlier, we successfully produced CoQ10 in rice, which normally produces predominately CoQ9. Here we developed efficient production of CoQ10 in rice by introducing the gene for decaprenyl diphosphate synthase into rice sugary and shrunken mutants. These rices produced 1.3 to 1.6 times as much CoQ10 as the earlier enriched rice did.
20057145	Rice straw was manually dissected and two main fractions were recovered: a culm and a leaf sheath/blade fraction, in order to evaluate their potential as feedstocks for the recovery of fermentable sugars. In the case of cv. Koshihikari and Milkyqueen, most soft carbohydrates (SCs: glucose, fructose, sucrose, starch, and beta-1,3-1,4-glucan) were present in the culms, reaching 47.9% and 89.2% of total SCs in the two main fractions. The results also indicated that beta-glucans (cellulose and beta-1,3-1,4-glucan) and xylan in the culms were more susceptible to direct enzymatic attack than those in the leaf sheath/blades. Thus the culm has high potential as a new feedstock for the extraction of fermentable sugars in a concentrated form, as compared to whole rice straw and the leaf sheath/blade. In this study, a novel method of separating a culm from the whole rice straw by means of wind power was also evaluated.
2005872	Southern blot analysis indicates that the rice genome contains single copies of genes encoding type A (phyA) and type B (phyB) phytochromes. We have isolated overlapping cDNA and genomic clones encoding the entire phyB polypeptide. This monocot sequence is more closely related to phyB from the dicot, Arabidopsis (73% amino acid sequence identity), than it is to the phyA gene in the rice genome (50% identity). These data support the proposal that phyA and phyB subfamilies diverged early in plant evolution and that subsequent divergence accompanied the evolution of monocots and dicots. Moreover, since rice and Arabidopsis phyB polypeptides are more closely related to one another (73% identity) than are monocot and dicot phyA sequences (63-65% identity), it appears that phyB has evolved more slowly than phyA. Sequence conservation between phyA and phyB is greatest in a central core region surrounding the chromophore attachment site, and least toward the amino-terminal and carboxy-terminal ends of the polypeptides, although hydropathy analysis suggests that the overall structure of the two phytochromes has been conserved. Gene-specific Northern blot analysis indicates that, whereas phyA is negatively regulated by phytochrome in rice seedling shoots in the manner typical of monocots, phyB is constitutively expressed irrespective of light treatment. In consequence, phyA and phyB transcripts are equally abundant in fully green tissue. Since Arabidopsis phyB mRNA levels are also unaffected by light, the present results suggest that this mode of regulation is evolutionarily conserved among phyB genes, perhaps reflecting differences in the functional roles of the different phytochrome subfamilies.
20059702	*The colonization of land by plants fundamentally altered environmental conditions on earth. Plant-mycorrhizal fungus symbiosis likely played a key role in this process by assisting plants to absorb water and nutrients from soil. *Here, in a diverse set of land plants, we investigated the evolutionary histories and functional conservation of three genes required for mycorrhiza formation in legumes and rice (Oryza sativa), DMI1, DMI3 and IPD3. *The genes were isolated from nearly all major plant lineages. Phylogenetic analyses showed that they had been vertically inherited since the origin of land plants. Further, cross-species mutant rescue experiments demonstrated that DMI3 genes from liverworts and hornworts could rescue Medicago truncatula dmi3 mutants for mycorrhiza formation. Yeast two-hybrid assays also showed that bryophyte DMI3 proteins could bind to downstream-acting M. trunculata IPD3 protein. Finally, molecular evolutionary analyses revealed that these genes were under purifying selection for maintenance of their ancestral functions in all mycorrhizal plant lineages. *These results indicate that the mycorrhizal genes were present in the common ancestor of land plants, and that their functions were largely conserved during land plant evolution. The evidence presented here strongly suggests that plant-mycorrhizal fungus symbiosis was one of the key processes that contributed to the origin of land flora.
20059735	Studies on some plant species have shown that increasing the growth temperature gradually or pretreating with high temperature can lead to obvious photosynthetic acclimation to high temperature. To test whether this acclimation arises from heat adaptation of ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco, EC 4.1.1.39) activation mediated by Rubisco activase (RCA), gene expression of RCA large isoform (RCA(L)) and RCA small isoform (RCA(S)) in rice was determined using a 4-day heat stress treatment [40/30 degrees C (day/night)] followed by a 3-day recovery under control conditions [30/22 degrees C (day/night)]. The heat stress significantly induced the expression of RCA(L) as determined by both mRNA and protein levels. Correlative analysis indicated that RCA(S) protein content was extremely significantly related to Rubisco initial activity and net photosynthetic rate (Pn) under both heat stress and normal conditions. Immunoblot analysis of the Rubisco-RCA complex revealed that the ratio of RCA(L) to Rubisco increased markedly in heat-acclimated rice leaves. Furthermore, transgenic rice plants expressing enhanced amounts of RCA(L) exhibited higher thermotolerance in Pn and Rubisco initial activity and grew better at high temperature than wild-type (WT) plants and transgenic rice plants expressing enhanced amounts of RCA(S). Under normal conditions, the transgenic rice plants expressing enhanced amounts of RCA(S) showed higher Pn and produced more biomass than transgenic rice plants expressing enhanced amounts of RCA(L) and wild-type plants. Together, these suggest that the heat-induced RCA(L) may play an important role in photosynthetic acclimation to moderate heat stress in vivo, while RCA(S) plays a major role in maintaining Rubisco initial activity under normal conditions.
20060014	Taxa of the Alternaria infectoria species group are the predominant Alternaria spp. found in cereals in Northern Europe. While several pyrones have been isolated from A. infectoria and described as taxonomical markers for species identification, information about the bioactivity of metabolites from the fungus is missing. Bioassay-guided fractionation of rice culture extracts from several strains of A. infectoria linked the observed toxicity of the extracts in MRC-5 cells to free fatty acids, i.e. linoleic acid and alpha-linolenic acid. The fungus also produced a cytotoxic pyrone, which upon isolation and NMR spectroscopic analysis was identified as a mixture of phomenins A and B (approximately 10:1), which have not previously been isolated from an Alternaria species.
20060033	Adenovirus vectors (AdVs) are efficient tools for gene therapy in many tissues. Several studies have demonstrated successful transgene transduction with AdVs in the inner ear of rodents [Kawamoto K, Ishimoto SI, Minoda R, Brough DE, Raphael Y (2003) J Neurosci 23:4395-4400]. However, toxicity of AdVs [Morral N, O'Neal WK, Rice K, Leland MM, Piedra PA, Aguilar-Cordova E, Carey KD, Beaudet AL, Langston C (2002) Hum Gene Ther 13:143-154.] or lack of tropism to important cell types such as hair cells [Shou J, Zheng JL, Gao WQ (2003) Mol Cell Neurosci 23:169-179] appears to limit their experimental and potential clinical utility. Histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDIs) are known to enhance AdV-mediated transgene expression in various organs [Dion LD, Goldsmith KT, Tang DC, Engler JA, Yoshida M, Garver RI Jr (1997) Virology 231:201-209], but their effects in the inner ear have not been documented. We investigated the ability of one HDI, trichostatin A (TSA), to enhance AdV-mediated transgene expression in inner ear tissue. We cultured neonatal rat macular and cochlear explants, and transduced them with an AdV encoding green fluorescent protein (Ad-GFP) under the control of a constitutive promoter for 24 h. In the absence of TSA, GFP expression was limited, and very few hair cells were transduced. TSA did not enhance transduction when applied at the onset of Ad-GFP transduction. However, administration of TSA during or just after Ad-GFP application increased GFP expression in supporting cells approximately fourfold. Moreover, vestibular hair cell transduction was enhanced approximately sixfold, and that of inner hair cells by more than 17-fold. These results suggest that TSA increases AdV-mediated transgene expression in the inner ear, including the successful transduction of hair cells. HDIs, some of which are currently under clinical trials (Sandor et al., 2002), could be useful tools in overcoming current limitations of gene therapy in the inner ear using Ad-GFP.
20060316	Collision-induced dissociation of the benzylammonium and the 4-tert-butyl benzylammonium ions was studied experimentally in an electrospray ionization quadrupole-hexapole-quadrupole tandem mass spectrometer. Ion fragmentation efficiencies were determined as functions of the kinetic energy of ions and the collider gas (argon) pressure. A theoretical Monte Carlo model of ion collisional excitation, scattering, and decomposition was developed. The model includes simulation of the trajectories of the parent and the product ions flight through the hexapole collision cell, quasiclassical trajectory modeling of collisional activation and scattering of ions, and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) modeling of the parent ion decomposition. The results of modeling demonstrate a general agreement between calculations and experiment. Calculated values of ion fragmentation efficiency are sensitive to initial vibrational excitation of ions, scattering of product ions from the collision cell, and distribution of initial ion velocities orthogonal to the axis of the collision cell. Three critical parameters of the model were adjusted to reproduce the experimental data on the dissociation of the benzylammonium ion: reaction enthalpy and initial internal and translational temperatures of the ions. Subsequent application of the model to decomposition of the t-butyl benzylammonium ion required adjustment of the internal ion temperature only. Energy distribution functions obtained in modeling depend on the average numbers of collisions between the ion and the atoms of the collider gas and, in general, have non-Boltzmann shapes.
20060642	Rice-straw burning is a common post-harvest practice on rice paddy land, which results in the accumulation of rice-straw ash (RSA) in paddy soil. Because the occurrence of RSA in soil may affect the fate and transport of contaminants, this study investigated the sorption of 3-chlorophenol (3-CP) on RSA and RSA amended soils to evaluate the sorptive properties of RSA in soils. The results showed that the sorption of 3-CP to RSA proceeds through a surface reaction rather than through partitioning and that the neutral form of 3-CP is preferentially sorbed to the surface when compared to the deprotonated anionic form of 3-CP. The addition of RSA to the soils enhanced the overall 3-CP sorption, indicating that RSA amendment may be applied to retard the movement of 3-CP in contaminated soils. As the RSA content in the soils was increased from 0% to 2%, the Langmuir sorption maximum of the soils increased from 18-80 to 256-274 mg kg(-1). Thus, RSA contributed more to the total sorption of the soils than other major components in the soils. Nonetheless, the 3-CP sorption of the soils containing RSA was less than the combination of pure RSA and the soils, thereby indicating that the 3-CP sorption of RSA was suppressed. This may be attributed to the competition of organic matter or other soil components for the surface binding sites of RSA.
20061193	High-performance liquid chromatography, coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS) has been established as the method of choice for the sensitive and simultaneous determination of different folates in a particular matrix, especially when only minute quantities of material are available. Using a previously developed and validated HPLC-MS/MS method as a starting point, we here report on the development and validation of an ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC-MS/MS) method for analysis of folates in rice, which allows higher throughput and better resolution. UPLC was performed under gradient conditions on an Acquity HSS T3 column, followed by tandem mass spectrometry detection. The method was validated based on linearity, sensitivity, precision, accuracy and matrix effects. The limits of detection and the lower limits of quantification varied between 0.06 and 0.45 microg/100 g and 0.12 and 0.91 microg/100 g, respectively. Two linear calibration curves were established, one for the low and the other for the high concentration range. Analysis of the distribution and levels of folates in wild-type and folate-biofortified rice showed up to 50-fold enrichment in biofortified rice, with total folate levels of up to 900 microg/100 g rice. This is the first successful implementation of a UPLC method for the rapid and sensitive quantitative determination of folates in plant material.
20063041	Habitat use by crop-raiding Japanese macaques (Macaca fuscata) was studied in western Japan from December 2005 to February 2006, a food-scarce season. To examine how different vegetation types affect habitat use by monkeys, two crop-raiding troops were compared: the first troop inhabited a habitat involving more wild food resources; the second troop inhabited a habitat providing fewer wild food resources. It was hypothesized that monkeys living in the habitat with fewer wild food resources are more likely to utilize human settlements and areas around them (i.e. adjacent zones), with a dependence on crop foods. Comparisons of observed and expected habitat use frequencies showed that the first troop selected evergreen broad-leaved forests and conifer plantations, and avoided adjacent zones, rice fields, and golf courses. The second troop selected adjacent zones and avoided conifer plantations, pine forests, and deciduous broad-leaved forests. Both troops moved rapidly in avoided habitat types. These results suggest that monkeys living in the habitat with fewer wild food resources are more likely to utilize areas around human settlements during a food-scarce season.
20063760	A FACE (Free-air component enrichment) system in a rice/wheat rotation field was used to investigate the effects of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) inoculation on wheat growth and soil microbial biomass under elevated tropospheric O3 concentration. The elevated O3 concentration tended to increase AM colonization of wheat seedling and bate plant growth during the booting period, then significantly (p < 0.05) reduced aerial biomass, individual yield and kernel weight by 22%, 29% and 9%, respectively, and decreased soil microbial biomass N by 37% after wheat harvesting. However, the total N content in wheat grain significantly (p < 0.05) increased from 2.2% to 2.6%. Under elevated O3 concentration, AMF inoculation accelerated AM colonization successfully, and improved colonization rate and aerial biomass significantly (p < 0.05) during the booting period, thus reduced the damage of aerial biomass by 50% when harvesting, and increased soil microbial biomass N significantly (p < 0.05) related to the noninoculated treatment. Although wheat yield didn't increase, the total N content in grain decreased to the same level of that of the control wheat. It suggested that higher AM colonization is the resistance behavior of wheat in response to O3 intimidation, and AMF inoculation can accelerate wheat growth, increase root exudates and soil microbial biomass subsequencely.
20063764	In order to tackle the problem of Cd pollution in paddy soils and investigate soil available Cd as affected by different fertilizers, incubation experiments were carried out to study the effects of different N, P and K fertilizers and pH by adding acid or base on soil available Cd under waterlogged conditions. Results revealed that soil pH increased sharply after the soil was flooded, especially at the beginning of incubation, and gradually decreased with incubation time and finally tended to approach the neutral values. The patterns of soil pH change were just opposite to those of soil available Cd, a negative correlation observed between the two. Soil flooding made the soil available Cd drop by 58.2%-84.1%. There were significant differences between different fertilizer types/varieties on soil available Cd, being most complex with N fertilizers and followed by K and P fertilizers. Among the fertilizers studied, ammonium chloride showed the unique ability in reducing soil pH and enhancing soil available Cd, and urea, single super phosphate and potassium chloride also promoted to a less extent amounts of Cd extracted from the soil. Ammonium sulfate, potassium sulfate and mono-ammonium phosphate significantly decreased soil available Cd compared to the CK treatment. Whether or not the soil was flooded, soil available Cd was highly negatively correlated with soil pH after adding acid or base (R = - 0.994 without incubation and R = - 0.919 after incubation for 60 d). The results further suggest that in the Cd polluted paddy soil, use of ammonium chloride should be avoided, S bearing fertilizers in combination with alkaline materials can be adopted, and the rice field should be flooded all the time during growing season, all the these practices can effectively lower soil available Cd.
20064202	Developing new population types based on interspecific introgressions has been suggested by several authors to facilitate the discovery of novel allelic sources for traits of agronomic importance. Chromosome segment substitution lines from interspecific crosses represent a powerful and useful genetic resource for QTL detection and breeding programs. We built a set of 64 chromosome segment substitution lines carrying contiguous chromosomal segments of African rice Oryza glaberrima MG12 (acc. IRGC103544) in the genetic background of Oryza sativa ssp. tropical japonica (cv. Caiapó). Well-distributed simple-sequence repeats markers were used to characterize the introgression events. Average size of the substituted chromosomal segments in the substitution lines was about 10 cM and covered the whole donor genome, except for small regions on chromosome 2 and 4. Proportions of recurrent and donor genome in the substitution lines were 87.59% and 7.64%, respectively. The remaining 4.78% corresponded to heterozygotes and missing data. Strong segregation distortion was found on chromosomes 3 and 6, indicating the presence of interspecific sterility genes. To illustrate the advantages and the power of quantitative trait loci (QTL) detection using substitution lines, a QTL detection was performed for scored traits. Transgressive segregation was observed for several traits measured in the population. Fourteen QTLs for plant height, tiller number per plant, panicle length, sterility percentage, 1000-grain weight and grain yield were located on chromosomes 1, 3, 4, 6 and 9. Furthermore, a highly significant QTL controlling resistance to the Rice stripe necrosis virus was located between SSR markers RM202-RM26406 (44.5-44.8 cM) on chromosome 11. Development and phenotyping of CSSL libraries with entire genome coverage represents a useful strategy for QTL discovery. Mapping of the RSNV locus represents the first identification of a genetic factor underlying resistance to this virus. This population is a powerful breeding tool. It also helps in overcoming hybrid sterility barriers between species of rice.
20065621	The potential value of benzyl isothiocyanate (BIT) vapor for food preservation was investigated in comparison with allyl isothiocyanate (AIT) vapor. Measurements of minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) against various bacteria and fungi indicated that BIT vapor shows higher antibacterial activity towards Gram-positive bacteria, including lactic acid bacteria, than AIT vapor. BIT has a similar inhibitory effect to AIT against Gram-negative bacteria, yeast and fungi, except that it was less effective against Pseudomonas fluorescens JCM 5963. Both BIT and AIT have a strong inhibitory activity against yeast and fungi. AIT vapor suppressed growth of total aerobic bacteria in bigeye tuna meat and pork mince during storage at 10 degrees C and 30 degrees C, while BIT vapor had no effect. Also, AIT vapor strongly inhibited mycelial development of Aspergillus sojae JCM 2251 and Penicillium expansum IAM 13777 inoculated on rice cakes, while BIT vapor only slightly suppressed their growth. BIT has antimicrobial activities, but further studies are needed to establish its suitability for use in food preservation.
20066049	Genetic resistance to barley leaf rust caused by Puccinia hordei involves both R genes and quantitative trait loci. The R genes provide higher but less durable resistance than the quantitative trait loci. Consequently, exploring quantitative or partial resistance has become a favorable alternative for controlling disease. Four quantitative trait loci for partial resistance to leaf rust have been identified in the doubled haploid Steptoe (St)/Morex (Mx) mapping population. Further investigations are required to study the molecular mechanisms underpinning partial resistance and ultimately identify the causal genes. We explored partial resistance to barley leaf rust using a genetical genomics approach. We recorded RNA transcript abundance corresponding to each probe on a 15K Agilent custom barley microarray in seedlings from St and Mx and 144 doubled haploid lines of the St/Mx population. A total of 1154 and 1037 genes were, respectively, identified as being P. hordei-responsive among the St and Mx and differentially expressed between P. hordei-infected St and Mx. Normalized ratios from 72 distant-pair hybridisations were used to map the genetic determinants of variation in transcript abundance by expression quantitative trait locus (eQTL) mapping generating 15685 eQTL from 9557 genes. Correlation analysis identified 128 genes that were correlated with resistance, of which 89 had eQTL co-locating with the phenotypic quantitative trait loci (pQTL). Transcript abundance in the parents and conservation of synteny with rice allowed us to prioritise six genes as candidates for Rphq11, the pQTL of largest effect, and highlight one, a phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (HvPHGPx) for detailed analysis. The eQTL approach yielded information that led to the identification of strong candidate genes underlying pQTL for resistance to leaf rust in barley and on the general pathogen response pathway. The dataset will facilitate a systems appraisal of this host-pathogen interaction and, potentially, for other traits measured in this population.
20067279	Wetlands provide numerous ecosystem services, but also can be sources of methylmercury (MeHg) production and export. Rice agricultural wetlands in particular may be important sites for MeHg bioaccumulation due to their worldwide ubiquity, periodic flooding schedules, and high use by wildlife. We assessed MeHg bioaccumulation within agricultural and perennial wetlands common to California's Central Valley during summer, when the majority of wetland habitats are shallowly flooded rice fields. We introduced caged western mosquitofish (Gambusia affinis) within white rice (Oryza sativa), wild rice (Zizania palustris), and permanent wetlands at water inlets, centers, and outlets. Total mercury (THg) concentrations and body burdens in caged mosquitofish increased rapidly, exceeding baseline values at introduction by 135% to 1197% and 29% to 1566% among sites, respectively, after only 60 days. Mercury bioaccumulation in caged mosquitofish was greater in rice fields than in permanent wetlands, with THg concentrations at wetland outlets increasing by 12.1, 5.8, and 2.9 times over initial concentrations in white rice, wild rice, and permanent wetlands, respectively. In fact, mosquitofish caged at white rice outlets accumulated 721 ng Hg/fish in just 60 days. Mercury in wild mosquitofish and Mississippi silversides (Menidia audens) concurrently sampled at wetland outlets also were greater in white rice and wild rice than permanent wetlands. Within wetlands, THg concentrations and body burdens of both caged and wild fish increased from water inlets to outlets in white rice fields, and tended to not vary among sites in permanent wetlands. Fish THg concentrations in agricultural wetlands were high, exceeding 0.2 microg/g ww in 82% of caged fish and 59% of wild fish. Our results indicate that shallowly flooded rice fields are potential hotspots for MeHg bioaccumulation and, due to their global prevalence, suggest that agricultural wetlands may be important contributors to MeHg contamination.
20067480	The impact of diet on cow's milk allergy (CMA) duration and whether exposure to residual amounts of cow's milk protein influences the onset of tolerance are unknown. To prospectively assess the dietary factors influencing disease duration in a randomized cohort. We randomly switched the formula of symptomatic patients from the Milan Cow's Milk Allergy Cohort to one of three treatment groups according to the quarterly rotation of rice hydrolysate formula, extensively hydrolysed cow's milk formula and soy-based formula. In this intention-to-treat, randomized analysis, a hazard ratio (HR) estimation model was used to analyse dietary impact on disease duration. Seventy-two children aged a mean of 14.1+/-8.6 months at diagnosis were followed up for a median of 26 months. Fifty-one reached tolerance at a mean of 34.1+/-15.2 months. The mean duration of disease was 40.2+/-4.8 months with milk hydrolysate, 24.3+/-3.6 months with rice and 24.3+/-2.6 months with soy. Dietary choice independently predicted shorter duration of disease [adjusted HRs 3.09 (P=0.007) for rice, 2.54 (P=0.02) for soy, both against milk hydrolysate]. In 50 children not co-sensitized to soy, diet choice impacted the duration of disease more strongly [adjusted HRs 8.02 (P=0.006) for rice, 6.53 (P=0.015) for soy, both against milk hydrolysate]. Patients not exposed to cow's milk protein residue achieve cow's milk tolerance earlier than patients who follow an extensively hydrolysed cow's milk diet. This may be due to residual antigenicity in hydrolysed milks. As the effect of dietary intervention is stronger in patients not sensitized to soy, we infer that when atopic disease has progressed to multiple sensitizations, the elimination of allergenic exposure may not be sufficient to reduce the duration of CMA.
20067590	The WOX genes form a plant-specific subclade of the eukaryotic homeobox transcription factor superfamily, which is characterized by the presence of a conserved DNA-binding homeodomain. The analysis of WOX gene expression and function shows that WOX family members fulfill specialized functions in key developmental processes in plants, such as embryonic patterning, stem-cell maintenance and organ formation. These functions can be related to either promotion of cell division activity and/or prevention of premature cell differentiation. The phylogenetic tree of the plant WOX proteins can be divided into three clades, termed the WUS, intermediate and ancient clade. WOX proteins of the WUS clade appear to some extent able to functionally complement other members. The specific function of individual WOX-family proteins is most probably determined by their spatiotemporal expression pattern and probably also by their interaction with other proteins, which may repress their transcriptional activity. The prototypic WOX-family member WUS has recently been shown to act as a bifunctional transcription factor, functioning as repressor in stem-cell regulation and as activator in floral patterning. Past research has mainly focused on part of the WOX protein family in some model flowering plants, such as Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) or Oryza sativa (rice). Future research, including so-far neglected clades and non-flowering plants, is expected to reveal how these master switches of plant differentiation and embryonic patterning evolved and how they fulfill their function.
20068238
20068584	To investigate if dietary energy density is associated with measures of dietary quality (food group, micronutrient and macronutrient intakes) in children and adolescents. In all, 551 children (mean age 9.6 years, 52% girls) and 569 adolescents (15.5 years, 55% girls), sampled from schools in Sweden, completed a single 24-h dietary recall. Dietary energy density (kJ/g) was calculated as the energy from all food consumed divided by the weight of all food consumed. Beverages were excluded from the calculation. Food and micronutrient intakes were adjusted for energy intake. A one-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to test for differences in food group and nutrient intakes across age- and gender-specific tertiles of energy density. Discriminant analysis was used to confirm the groupings formed by tertiles. Subjects with low-energy-density diets were significantly more likely to consume fruits, vegetables, pasta, rice, potatoes and cereals and less likely to consume sweetened drinks, sweets and chocolate. After energy adjustment, their intakes of many foods recommended in the Swedish food-based dietary guidelines were higher and intakes of nutrient-poor foods were lower. The macronutrient energy profile (% energy) of low-energy-density diets was closest to the recommended level. Low-energy-density diets contained greater amounts of most micronutrients. Discriminant analysis confirmed the existence of heterogeneous dietary patterns and the likelihood of correct classification by energy density in 65% of cases. Lower dietary energy density is associated with better dietary quality in children and adolescents. Energy density has advantages over other whole diet analysis methods and may be suitable as a simple proxy of diet quality.
20068849	A high sensitivity satellite-borne television camera has been developed to measure such faint light sources as auroras. A secondary electron conduction (SEC) television camera tube is used as the image sensor. In the present application for the Rice/NASA satellites code-named Owls, the tube is exposed by the application of a high voltage pulse of 0.1 sec or 0.2 sec duration. The picture is scanned for about 19 sec, and the video is digitized in synchronism with the satellite PCM system. The television data are then telemetered to the ground either real time or stored in one of the tape recorders. The optical system super-imposes star images on the picture for azimuthal aspect reference. The sensitivity of the slow scan camera was measured; it agrees with the sensitivity of a camera scanning at normal scan rate. Comparison was made of the relative sensitivity of the camera at the wavelength of the three most important auroral components. The camera has sensitivity comparable with the dark-adapted human eye. The weight of the system is 3.9 kg, and the power dissipation is 3.9 W.
20069448	Soil organic matter not only affects sustainability of agricultural ecosystems, but also extremely important in maintaining overall quality of environment as soil contains a significant part of global carbon stock. Hence, we attempted to assess the influence of different tillage and nutrient management practices on various stabilized and active soil organic carbon pools, and their contribution to the extractable nitrogen phosphorus and sulfur. Our study confined to the assessment of impact of agricultural management practices on the soil organic carbon pools and extractable nutrients under three important cropping systems, viz. soybean-wheat, maize-wheat, and rice-wheat. Results indicated that there was marginal improvement in Walkley and Black content in soil under integrated and organic nutrient management treatments in soybean-wheat, maize-wheat, and rice-wheat after completion of four cropping cycles. Improvement in stabilized pools of soil organic carbon (SOC) was not proportional to the applied amount of organic manures. While, labile pools of SOC were increased with the increase in amount of added manures. Apparently, green manure (Sesbania) was more effective in enhancing the lability of SOC as compared to farmyard manure and crop residues. The KMnO(4)-oxidizable SOC proved to be more sensitive and consistent as an index of labile pool of SOC compared to microbial biomass carbon. Under different cropping sequences, labile fractions of soil organic carbon exerted consistent positive effect on the extractable nitrogen, phosphorus, and sulfur in soil.
20069626	The biological control of plant pests and diseases using a single organism has been reported to give inconsistent and poor performance. To improve the efficacy, bioformulations were developed possessing mixtures of bioagents. Bioformulations combining Pseudomonas fluorescens Migula strains Pf1 and AH1 and Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo) Vuill. isolate B2 were developed and tested for their efficacy against leaffolder pest and sheath blight disease on rice under glasshouse and field conditions. The combination of Pf1, AH1 and B2 effectively reduced the incidence of leaffolder insect and sheath blight disease on rice compared with other treatments. An in vitro assay of leaffolder preference to rice leaf tissues treated with Pf1 + AH1 + B2 biformulation showed variation from normal growth and development of leaffolder larvae. Plants treated with the Pf1 + AH1 + B2 combination showed a greater accumulation of enzymes, lipoxygenase and chitinase activity against leaffolder insect compared with other treatments. Similarly, the plants showed a higher accumulation of defence enzymes, peroxidase and polyphenol oxidase activity against sheath blight pathogen in Pf1 + AH1 + B2 treatment compared with the untreated control. The bioformulation mixture attracted the natural enemy population of leaffolder under field conditions. In addition, a significant increase in rice grain yield was observed in Pf1 + AH1 + B2 treatment compared with the untreated control. The combination of P. fluorescens strains and B. bassiana isolate effectively reduced the incidence of leaffolder insect and sheath blight disease on rice plants and showed the possibility of controlling both pest and disease using a single bioformulation.
20069844	Observations of fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), larvae infesting plots of Miscanthus x giganteus Greef and Deuter ex Hodkinson and Renvoize prompted laboratory-based tests of survival, development, and feeding preferences on leaf tissue from M. x giganteus and switchgrass, Panicum virgatum L. Survival from hatch to pupation was >70 and 50% for fall armyworms reared on switchgrass and M. x giganteus, respectively, although survival of the S. frugiperda rice strain was significantly greater than the corn strain on both crops. Developmental times from hatch to pupation or adult emergence showed effects of crop and S. frugiperda host strain, but analysis of an interaction revealed developmental times for the rice strain were similar on both crops, whereas corn strain larvae showed delayed development on M. x giganteus relative to switchgrass. Analysis of larval (10 d) and pupal masses showed a similar pattern, with effects of crop and an interaction (at 10 d), but only the mass of corn strain larvae feeding on M. x giganteus was reduced relative to the other crop and strain combinations. In choice tests, neonates of both corn and rice strains showed a strong preference for feeding on young tissues rather than mature leaves of M. x giganteus or switchgrass, but they also clearly favored corn, Zea mays L., leaves over either of the perennial grasses. Results indicate both plants are potential hosts for S. frugiperda, but additional information is needed to understand under which scenarios and to what degree fall armyworms may damage perennial grasses grown for biofuel production.
20070431	1. During migratory stopovers, animals are under strong time stress and need to maximize intake rates. We examine how foragers react to resource depletion by studying the foraging ecology and foraging site selection of black-tailed godwits Limosa l. limosa staging in rice fields during their northward migration stopover (January-March 2007). 2. We analysed godwit abundance and foraging behaviour, sampled the availability of rice in the fields and used the functional response model to predict the giving-up density (GUD) of rice kernels when godwits should give up a rice field. Sightings of individually colour-marked birds were used to verify whether individuals moving between rice fields confirmed the predicted GUD. 3. Black-tailed godwit intake rates at different rice densities fitted Holling's functional response curve. The predicted GUD of rice necessary to balance allometric estimates of daily energy expenditure (DEE) and measured time budgets were confirmed by GUD measured in the field. 4. Individually marked birds moved towards rice fields with higher rather than lower rice densities more often than randomly expected. These birds increased the measured intake rates after this move. 5. Godwit foraging caused a decrease in the rice density of individual fields during the stopover period. Despite this, overall intake rates remained constant as godwits reacted to resource depletion by moving to a new foraging site as soon as their intake rate falls below the required levels to achieve DEE.
20070442	To characterize novel multiple bacteriocins produced by Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides QU 15. Leuconostoc pseudomesenteroides QU 15 isolated from Nukadoko (rice bran bed) produced novel bacteriocins. By using three purification steps, four antimicrobial peptides termed leucocin A (ΔC7), leucocin A-QU 15, leucocin Q and leucocin N were purified from the culture supernatant. The amino acid sequences of leucocin A (ΔC7) and leucocin A-QU 15 were identical to that of leucocin A-UAL 187 belonging to class IIa bacteriocins, but leucocin A (ΔC7) was deficient in seven C-terminal residues. Leucocin Q and leucocin N are novel class IId bacteriocins. Moreover, the DNA sequences encoding three bacteriocins, leucocin A-QU 15, leucocin Q and leucocin N were obtained. These bacteriocins including two novel bacteriocins were identified from Leuc. pseudomesenteroides QU 15. They showed similar antimicrobial spectra, but their intensities differed. The C-terminal region of leucocin A-QU 15 was important for its antimicrobial activity. Leucocins Q and N were encoded by adjacent open reading frames (ORFs) in the same operon, but leucocin A-QU 15 was not. These leucocins were produced concomitantly by the same strain. Although the two novel bacteriocins were encoded by adjacent ORFs, a characteristic of class IIb bacteriocins, they did not show synergistic activity.
20071009	A pilot dietary experiment was conducted over 10 days to evaluate whether a simple yet often underutilized approach of constructing mass balance of arsenic metabolites can be used to assess in vivo bioaccessibility of arsenic in cooked rice. Two volunteers were involved in this study. The quantity of drinking water, food and urine samples, together with arsenic concentration and speciation of these samples was monitored to construct a mass balance of arsenic intake and excretion. In the first five days, the two volunteers on a wheat diet had an average arsenic daily intake of 15.4+/-2.6microg and 9.6+/-0.7microg, respectively. In the next five days, these volunteers switched to a rice diet, increasing the average arsenic daily intake to 36.4+/-2.8microg and 34.1+/-7.7microg, respectively. Daily excretion of urinary arsenic, mostly as dimethylarsenic acid (DMA), doubled from 9.8+/-0.3microg to 21.0+/-3.0microg, and from 6.5+/-0.8microg to 11.6+/-4.5microg, respectively. The percentage of ingested arsenic excreted in urine remained constant at approximately 58% for one volunteer before and after the rice diet, and was approximately 69% for another. Mass balance established during a controlled dietary experiment over 10 days is shown to be a useful approach to evaluate in vivo bioaccessibility and metabolism of arsenic uptake from diet and is applicable to study with more subjects.
20071163	In a study of three non-wood pulps (rice straw, EFB, and Hesperaloe), the standard pyrolysis model for biomass based on hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin pseudo-components, was modified to include char volatilization. As a result, abnormally high values for lignin content have been avoided. On the other hand, the consideration of autocatalysis (Prout-Tompkins equation) for TGA data simulation under inert and oxidative atmospheres, allows obtaining a stable set of kinetic parameters that describe volatilization and char oxidation for different heating rates, including char ignition. These simulations allow us to investigate certain effects like oxygen influence on cellulose-char formation (including reduction in activation energy) and to calculate the composition of samples.
20072620	Rice is a very important food staple that feeds more than half the world's population. Two major Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) subspecies, japonica and indica, show significant phenotypic variation in their stress responses. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying this phenotypic variation are still largely unknown. A common link among different stresses is that they produce an oxidative burst and result in an increase of reactive oxygen species (ROS). In this study, methyl viologen (MV) as a ROS agent was applied to investigate the rice oxidative stress response. We observed that 93-11 (indica) seedlings exhibited leaf senescence with severe lesions under MV treatment compared to Nipponbare (japonica). Whole-genome microarray experiments were conducted, and 1,062 probe sets were identified with gene expression level polymorphisms between the two rice cultivars in addition to differential expression under MV treatment, which were assigned as Core Intersectional Probesets (CIPs). These CIPs were analyzed by gene ontology (GO) and highlighted with enrichment GO terms related to toxin and oxidative stress responses as well as other responses. These GO term-enriched genes of the CIPs include glutathine S-transferases (GSTs), P450, plant defense genes, and secondary metabolism related genes such as chalcone synthase (CHS). Further insertion/deletion (InDel) and regulatory element analyses for these identified CIPs suggested that there may be some eQTL hotspots related to oxidative stress in the rice genome, such as GST genes encoded on chromosome 10. In addition, we identified a group of marker genes individuating the japonica and indica subspecies. In summary, we developed a new strategy combining biological experiments and data mining to study the possible molecular mechanism of phenotypic variation during oxidative stress between Nipponbare and 93-11. This study will aid in the analysis of the molecular basis of quantitative traits.
20072921	Accumulated evidences indicate that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are involved in the pathophysiology of aging process. Antioxidants are believed to play an important role in the defense system to counteract ROS in the body. While excess hydrophilic antioxidants can be excreted easily in urine, lipophilic antioxidants can penetrate into blood lipoproteins and cell membranes, and may maintain long and high bioavailability. These lipophilic antioxidants are thus expected to contribute greatly to the prevention of age-related diseases. Oils extracted from plant seeds are known to contain various lipophilic antioxidants such as vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) and carotenoids. They are known to not only decrease serum low-density-lipoprotein (LDL) level, but also prevent oxidation of LDL. In addition to vitamin E (alpha-tocopherol) and carotenoids, other lipophilic antioxidants such as gamma-oryzanol and sesaminol (from sesamolin) are in rice bran and sesame, respectively. They are sometimes called "vitamin-like food factors" or "biofactors." Although there are several methods for measuring the total antioxidant activities for various plant extracts, most of these methods are designed for hydrophilic antioxidants, and not for lipophilic antioxidants present in various plant seed oils. In this report, we present an assay method for the total potency of antioxidants that are soluble in oil (PAO-SO) utilizing bathocuproine (BC) as a chromogen. BC-based antioxidant activity assay shows good linearity (r(2) = 0.9986), good reproducibility (CV < 10%), and good recovery (86-91%) when dl-alpha-tocopherol, for example, is added to sesame oil. Total antioxidant activity of rape-seed oil, olive oil, and sesame oil could also be successfully measured.
20074189	The water buffalo plays a key role in the socio-economy of South-East Asia as it is the main draught power for paddy rice cultivation. While in the Indian subcontinent the water buffalo is the riverine type, in South-East Asia the majority of buffaloes are of the swamp type. In the poor remote northern province of Ha Giang in Vietnam, improvement of the swamp buffalo breed may be one of the best ways to increase sustainability of farming systems. Therefore, analysis of the genetic structure of the province buffalo population is a prerequisite to any conservation or improvement project. A total of 1122 animals were described for 11 body and horn measurements for morphometric characterization. From this sample set, 744 animals were genotyped for 17 microsatellite markers. Also 17 animals from southern provinces of Vietnam were genotyped as a comparative sample. The results showed that genetic diversity as well as inbreeding value in the Ha Giang was high. The F(ST) values within the province and across Vietnam were low indicating that most of the population variation is explained by individual variability. Bayesian clustering analysis did not highlight the presence of subdivided populations. These results are useful for the implementation of a conservation and improvement strategy of the swamp buffalo in order to guarantee the householders' needs for sustainability of the farming system in the Ha Giang province.
20074938	Experiments on flash pyrolysis of biomass (rice husk and sawdust) were performed in an entrained flow reactor at different temperatures (700-1000 degrees C). Results show that temperature has great impact on the biomass flash pyrolysis reactions. With the increase of temperature, the gas yield increased, while the yields of char and liquid decreased. After the early stage of pyrolysis, the gas yield increased gradually which could be attributed to the increase of CO and CH(4) yields at low temperature, while to the increase of CO and H(2) yields at high temperature. A first order kinetic model was employed to describe biomass flash pyrolysis characteristics and the relevant kinetic parameters were determined. Numerical simulation of pyrolysis process was carried out, the predicted yields of produced gases agreed reasonably with the experimental data.
20075250	Wetlands are the largest individual source of methane (CH4), but the magnitude and distribution of this source are poorly understood on continental scales. We isolated the wetland and rice paddy contributions to spaceborne CH4 measurements over 2003-2005 using satellite observations of gravity anomalies, a proxy for water-table depth Gamma, and surface temperature analyses TS. We find that tropical and higher-latitude CH4 variations are largely described by Gamma and TS variations, respectively. Our work suggests that tropical wetlands contribute 52 to 58% of global emissions, with the remainder coming from the extra-tropics, 2% of which is from Arctic latitudes. We estimate a 7% rise in wetland CH4 emissions over 2003-2007, due to warming of mid-latitude and Arctic wetland regions, which we find is consistent with recent changes in atmospheric CH4.
20075627	Isoflavonoids are a class of phytoestroegens. Isoflavonone synthase (IFS) is responsible for the conversion of naringenin to genistein. IFS is a cytochrome P450 (CYP), and requires cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) for its activity. Additionally, the majority of cytochrome P450s harbor a membrane binding domain, making them difficult to express in Escherichia coli. In order to resolve these issues, we constructed an in-frame fusion of the IFS from red clover (RCIFS) and CPR from rice (RCPR) after removing the membrane binding domain from RCIFS and RCPR reductase. The resultant fusion gene, RCIFS-RCPR, was expressed in E. coli. The conversion of naringenin into genistein was confirmed using this E. coli transformant. Following the optimization of the medium and cell density for biotransformation, 60 microM of genistein could be generated from 80 microM of naringenin. This fusion protein approach might be applicable to express other P450s in E. coli.
20075637	Three parathion-degrading bacteria and eight pairs of bacteria showing syntrophic metabolism of parathion were isolated from rice field soils, and their genetic and phenotypic characteristics were investigated. The three isolates and eight syntrophic pairs were able to utilize parathion as a sole source of carbon and energy, producing p-nitrophenol as the intermediate metabolite during the complete degradation of parathion. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene sequence indicated that the isolates were related to members of the genera, Burkholderia, Arthrobacter, Pseudomonas, Variovorax, and Ensifer. The chromosomal DNA patterns of the isolates obtained by polymerase-chain-reaction (PCR) amplification of repetitive extragenic palindromic (REP) sequences were distinct from one another. Ten of the isolates had plasmids. All of the isolates and syntrophic pairs were able to degrade parathion-related compounds such as EPN, p-nitrophenol, fenitrothion, and methyl-parathion. When analyzed with PCR amplification and dot-blotting hybridization using various primers targeted for the organophosphorus pesticide hydrolase genes of previously-reported isolates, most of the isolates did not show positive signals, suggesting that their parathion hydrolase genes had no significant sequence homology with those of the previously-reported organophosphate pesticide-degrading isolates.
20076983	Previous work identified the wild barley (Hordeum vulgare ssp. spontaneum) accession CPI-71284-48 as being capable of limiting sodium (Na(+)) accumulation in the shoots under saline hydroponic growth conditions. Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis using a cross between CPI-71284-48 and a selection of the cultivated barley (H. vulgare ssp. vulgare) cultivar Barque (Barque-73, a moderate Na(+) excluder) attributed the control of the Na(+) exclusion trait from CPI-71284-48 to a single locus on the short arm of chromosome 7H, which was named HvNax3. The locus reduced shoot Na(+) accumulation by 10-25% in plants grown in 150 mM NaCl. Markers generated using colinearity with rice and Brachypodium, together with the analysis of introgression lines and F(2) and F(3) families, enabled HvNax3 to be mapped to a 1.3-cM interval. Genes from the corresponding rice and Brachypodium intervals encode 16 different classes of proteins and include several plausible candidates for HvNax3. The potential of HvNax3 to provide a useful trait contributing to salinity tolerance in cultivated barley is discussed.
20077192	Satratoxin G (SG), a macrocyclic trichothecene produced by Stachybotrys chartarum, induces apoptosis in cultured neuronal cells as well as nasal olfactory sensory neurons (OSN) in the nose and brain of mice exposed intranasally to this toxin. The purposes of this study were to (1) develop a facile method for production and purification of both SG and its putative biosynthetic precursor, roridin L2 (RL2), from S. chartarum cultures and (2) compare their relative neurotoxicity in vitro and in vivo. Stachybotrys chartarum 29-58-17 was cultured in Fernbach flasks on rice (5 x 10(5) spores/250 g rice) for 4 to 6 wk. Following extraction with acetonitrile, the extract was dried, dissolved in dichloromethane, and subjected to Michel-Miller silica-gel chromatography using a stepwise acetonitrile-dichloromethane gradient with SG and RL2 eluting in the 30 and 40% acetonitrile fractions, respectively. Purification of the two compounds was completed by C18 semipreparative reverse-phase liquid chromatography using an acetonitrile-water gradient, and purity was confirmed by electrospray ionization/collision-induced dissociation (ESI-CID) tandem mass spectroscopy. Although viability significantly decreased in PC-12 neuronal cells treated with 10 to 25 ng/ml of SG, RL2 at concentrations up to 1000 ng/ml was not toxic. Flow cytometry and agarose DNA fragmentation assays revealed that SG at 10 to 25 ng/ml induced apoptotic death in the PC-12 cells, while RL2 at concentrations up to 1000 ng/ml was without effect. In a similar fashion, intranasal exposure of mice (female B6C3F1) to SG at 100 microg/kg body weight (bw) induced marked OSN apoptosis and atrophy of the olfactory epithelium, whereas RL2 at the equivalent dose did not exhibit toxicity. Taken together, an optimized protocol for production and isolation of trichothecenes from S. chartarum cultures is described and further demonstrates that while the macrocyclic SG was neurotoxic in vitro and in vivo, its biosynthetic precursor, RL2, was nontoxic.
20077198	The migration levels of bisphenol A (BPA) were analyzed in food samples by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) from polycarbonate (PC) bottles subjected to simulated use by heating with microwave, heating in a boiling water bath, or filling them with boiling hot water (100 degrees C). Migration testing performed in PC bottles filled with steamed rice or hot cooked pork, standing at room temperature, or heated in a boiling water bath (100 degrees C) showed that BPA was not detected at the limit of detection (LOD) of 1 microg/L (ppb). In contrast, heating by microwaving to 100 degrees C for 9 min increased BPA migration levels from 6 to 18 ppb and from 5 to 15 ppb for steamed rice or for cooked pork, respectively. In addition, 3 different PC bottles were tested by filling them with boiling hot water (100 degrees C) and leaving them to stand at room temperature for up to 3 h. The mean BPA levels from the bottles increased in a time-dependent manner, with the range of not detected (ND) to 2.5 ppb after 60 min. However, none of the PC bottles released BPA at levels that exceed the recently established specific migration limits (SML) of 600 ppb established by European Union and Korea Food and Drug Administration (KFDA). Data suggest that the use of PC plastic bottles in our daily life is considered safe in Korea.
20077214	Deoxynivalenol (DON) is a trichothecene mycotoxin. DON contamination in agricultural food staples such as wheat, barley, and maize due to Fusarium colonization is an increasing problem. In order to provide risk managers with better guidance for regulatory measures, the concentration of DON in cereal-based foods (n = 689), collected from six cities between June 2005 and August 2008, was determined. Further, dietary exposure to DON was estimated by combining data on DON concentration in these foods with their consumption rates. Among 689 samples, 272 samples (39%) were contaminated with DON. Relatively high DON concentrations were found in dried corn, with a mean concentration of 109 microg/kg (n = 74). Daily intake of DON simulated by the @Risk program was estimated to between 0.066 and 0.142 microg/kg body weight (bw)/d for males and between 0.066 and 0.144 microg/kg bw/d for females. The major contributor to DON exposure in the 50th and 95th percentile intake groups was polished rice. For each age class, young children (3-6 yr) showed the highest relative intake, with a mean intake of 0.142 microg/kg bw/d for males and 0.144 microg/kg bw/d for females. However, the estimated daily DON intake did not exceed the provisional maximum tolerable daily intake (1 microg/kg bw/d) for any age group or gender. From our risk assessment, it was concluded that the current intake of DON in South Korea may not serve as a serious health hazard.
20077702	Aimed to understand the effects of various labor-saving rice cultivation modes on the diversity of potential weed communities in paddy fields, an investigation was made on the quantitative characteristics of the weed seed bank under dry direct seeding, water direct seeding, seedling throwing, mechanized-transplanting, wheat-rice interplanting, and conventional manual transplanting. Under dry direct seeding, the density of the weed seed bank was up to 228,416 seeds x m(-2), being significantly higher than that under the other five cultivation modes. Wheat-rice interplanting ranked the second place. The seed density of sedge weeds under dry direct seeding and that of broad leaf weeds under wheat-rice interplanting were significantly higher than the seed densities of various kinds of weeds under other cultivation modes. Conventional manual transplanting mode had the highest species richness, with Margalef index being 1.86. The diversity indices, including Shannon-Wiener index, Gini index, and Pielou evenness index under water direct seeding and wheat-rice interplanting were higher than those under other cultivation modes. Comparing with conventional manual transplanting mode, the other five cultivation modes had their own dominant species in the potential weed community, and thereby, different labor-saving rice cultivation modes should be applied by turns to control the potential weed community in paddy fields effectively and persistently.
20077712	Based on GIS, GrADS, and HYSPLIT-4.8 model, this paper analyzed the daily light-trap catches of rice brown planthopper at 42 pest monitoring stations of 10 provinces in China, the wind field on 850 hPa isobaric surface, and the migration tracks of rice brown planthopper at 20 pest monitoring stations during the occurrence of 0505 typhoon 'Haitang' from 19th to 21st July, 2005. After its landing on China, the typhoon 'Haitang' changed the southwest air flow, a flow which leads the northward migration of rice brown planthopper, and made the wind field converge in the southwest of the typhoon and swerve in larger areas. Accordingly, the northward migration of the rice brown planthopper was stopped, and the airborne populations were forced to descend in some areas. The shear line area nearby 850 hPa isobaric surface was the concentration and deposition area of the rice brown planthopper. There would be a mass migration area in the warm airflow shear area in the southeast of typhoon during the collapse of the typhoon. After the whole typhoon landed, the southwest airflow rebuilt, and a mass rice brown planthopper migrated to the north.
20078159	The photodissociation of benzoic acid at 193 and 248 nm was investigated using multimass ion imaging techniques. Three dissociation channels were observed at 193 nm: (1) C(6)H(5)COOH-->C(6)H(5)+COOH, (2) C(6)H(5)COOH-->C(6)H(5)CO+OH, and (3) C(6)H(5)COOH-->C(6)H(6)+CO(2). Only channels, (2) and (3), were observed at 248 nm. Comparisons of the ion intensities and photofragment translational energy distributions with the potential energies obtained from ab initio calculations and the branching ratios obtained from the Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory suggest that the dissociation occurs on many electronic states.
20078783	Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) reaches a high virus content in rice, is genetically highly variable and evolves rapidly. Nevertheless, only a small proportion of isolates overcome rymv1-2 rice resistance by mutations in the VPg (viral protein genome-linked). The accumulation rates of wild-type (WT) and resistance-breaking (RB) genotypes of the E- and T-pathotypes of RYMV, with average and low virulence, respectively, were assessed. By quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, it was shown that: (i) in resistant plants, both WT genotypes reached a level of 10(5)-10(7) viral copies per milligram of fresh leaf; (ii) the accumulation of RB genotypes was variable, but was always much higher than the WT, with an RB/WT accumulation ratio of up to 10(6); (iii) in susceptible plants, the RB genotypes were counter-selected to a similar level. In competition experiments, there was a straightforward exclusion of WT by RB genotypes in resistant hosts. The mutation rate in VPg was more than 1 x 10(-3) mutations per site per year. Overall, a steady supply of highly adaptive RB genotypes was expected in resistant plants. However, the use of the few possible mutational pathways to virulence is tightly regulated by pathotype-specific genetic constraints: codon usage, mutational bias and sign epistasis. In addition, genetic drift may restrict the fixation of RB mutants. Altogether, both genetic and demographic constraints contribute to the low ability of RYMV to break rymv1-2 resistance.
2007925	To determine whether rice cereal could be used to complement a cow milk-based diet in the nutritional management of infants with acute diarrhea, we assessed its digestion and absorption in eight affected male infants, 69 to 131 days of age. They received cow milk formula with 5.4% lactose (diluted 1:1 with water and precooked rice cereal) 5 to 22 hours after admission and rehydration. The first feeding consisted of milk diluted with carbon 13-enriched rice cereal. A 48-hour fecal collection and balance study was performed. Rice cereal was reasonably well absorbed (84.0% to 95.8%) by seven of the eight infants. The study was repeated in seven of the infants after they had recovered. Our results indicated that rice cereal is well absorbed by young infants with acute diarrhea and that it is an adequate nutrient supplement for this patient population.
2007957	Rice syrup solids, rice protein, and casein hydrolysate were added to experimental oral rehydration solutions in various combinations and tested in a rat intestinal perfusion system. Chronic osmotic diarrhea was induced in juvenile rats by supplying the cathartic agents, magnesium citrate and phenolphthalein, in their drinking water for 1 week. The experimental oral rehydration solutions were compared with standard oral rehydration solutions containing 20 gm/L or 30 gm/L of glucose and with each other to determine if there were significant differences in net water, sodium, or potassium absorption. An oral rehydration solution containing 30 gm/L of rice syrup solids had a net water absorption rate significantly higher than that of the standard 20 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.1 +/- 0.62 versus 1.5 +/- 0.48 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). Casein hydrolysate did not significantly affect net water absorption. However, combinations of 30 gm/L rice syrup solids and 5 gm/L casein hydrolysate significantly increased (p less than 0.05) net sodium and potassium absorption compared with the 20 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution but not versus rice syrup solids alone. Oral rehydration solutions containing 30 gm/L rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/L rice protein, and 30 gm/L rice syrup solids plus 5 gm/L casein hydrolysate, had net water absorption rates significantly higher than the rate of a 30 gm/L glucose-based oral rehydration solution (2.5 +/- 0.36 and 2.4 +/- 0.38, respectively, versus 0.87 +/- 0.40 microliters/[min x cm], p less than 0.05). Rice protein and casein hydrolysate, however, did not significantly affect net water, sodium, or potassium absorption when added to rice protein glucose-based oral rehydration solutions. An inverse correlation between osmolality and net water absorption was observed (r = -0.653, p less than 0.02). The data suggest that substitution of rice syrup solids for glucose in oral rehydration solutions will improve water absorption and that rice syrup solids in combination with protein hydrolysates may, in addition, promote better sodium and potassium uptake.
2007958	Several issues involving glucose-based oral rehydration therapy may limit its acceptability and sustained use. Our studies suggest that defined short-chain glucose polymers (2 to 9 glucose units) are hydrolyzed and absorbed faster than isocaloric solutions of D-glucose in the small intestine of the rat. Glucose polymers, primarily from rice-based solutions, have been shown to be as effective as glucose-based solutions. They offer additional advantages in reducing the amount and duration of diarrhea with lesser volumes of solution, thereby reducing the costs of treatment. Rice-based solutions provide high caloric density and increase the absorption of sodium without an osmotic overload. The result is increased net absorption of glucose, sodium, and water. Glucose polymers from rice or other starches in oral rehydration solutions may be effective, inexpensive, easily used, and safe treatments for acute diarrhea.
2007960	Field studies in Bangladesh demonstrated that after proper training, village mothers were able to prepare and use rice-based, salt-enriched oral rehydration solutions containing safe concentrations of sodium, and were capable of achieving significantly fewer treatment failures and a reduction in the duration of diarrhea than with glucose-based oral rehydration solutions (ORS). An additional longitudinal study showed that improved growth and weight gain occurred with the consistent use of ORS; the effect was greater when rice-based ORS were used. In addition, the following possible limitations and benefits of cereal-based oral rehydration therapy, which are relevant to the strategies for its implementation in national diarrheal disease control programs, are discussed: safety, osmolarity, hypernatremia, spoiling, effectiveness, rehydration ability, reduction in diarrhea volume and duration, nutritional effects, effect on food intake, acceptance and usage by care givers, training of health workers, self-reliance of families, effect on other child survival activities, costs, potential problems in changing to cereal-based ORS, and the role of industrial production in packaged cereal-based ORS.
20079886	Enhanced salt tolerance of rice seedlings by abscisic acid (ABA) pretreatment was observed from phenotypic and physiological analyses. Total proteins from rice roots treated with ABA plus subsequent salt stress were analyzed by using proteomics method. Results showed that, 40 protein spots were uniquely upregulated in the seedlings under the condition of ABA pretreatment plus subsequent salt stress, whereas only 16 under the condition of salt treatment. About 78% (31 spots) of the 40 protein spots were only upregulated in the presence of the subsequent salt stress, indicating that plants might have an economical strategy to prevent energy loss under a false alarm. The results also showed that more enzymes involved in energy metabolism, defense, primary metabolism, etc. were upregulated uniquely in ABA-pretreated rice seedlings, suggesting more abundant energy supply, more active anabolism (nitrogen, nucleotide acid, carbohydrate, etc), and more comprehensive defense systems in ABA-pretreated seedlings than in salt stressed ones.
20080642	Hybrid incompatibility in F(1) hybrids or later generations is often observed as sterility or inviability. This incompatibility acts as postzygotic reproductive isolation, which results in the irreversible divergence of species. Here, we show that the reciprocal loss of duplicated genes encoding mitochondrial ribosomal protein L27 causes hybrid pollen sterility in F(1) hybrids of the cultivated rice Oryza sativa and its wild relative O. glumaepatula. Functional analysis revealed that this gene is essential for the later stage of pollen development, and distribution analysis suggests that the gene duplication occurred before the divergence of the AA genome species. On the basis of these results, we discuss the possible contribution of the "founder effect" in establishing this reproductive barrier.
20080803	The most widespread dietary problem in the world is mineral deficiency. We used the nicotianamine synthase (NAS) gene to increase mineral contents in rice grains. Nicotianamine (NA) is a chelator of metals and a key component of metal homeostasis. We isolated activation-tagged mutant lines in which expression of a rice NAS gene, OsNAS3, was increased by introducing 35S enhancer elements. Shoots and roots of the OsNAS3 activation-tagged plants (OsNAS3-D1) accumulated more Fe and Zn. Seeds from our OsNAS3-D1 plants grown on a paddy field contained elevated amounts of Fe (2.9-fold), Zn (2.2-fold), and Cu (1.7-fold). The NA level was increased 9.6-fold in OsNAS3-D1 seeds. Analysis by size exclusion chromatography coupled with inductively coupled plasma mass spectroscopy showed that WT and OsNAS3-D1 seeds contained equal amounts of Fe bound to IP6, whereas OsNAS3-D1 had 7-fold more Fe bound to a low molecular mass, which was likely NA. Furthermore, this activation led to increased tolerance to Fe and Zn deficiencies and to excess metal (Zn, Cu, and Ni) toxicities. In contrast, disruption of OsNAS3 caused an opposite phenotype. To test the bioavailability of Fe, we fed anemic mice with either engineered or WT seeds for 4 weeks and measured their concentrations of hemoglobin and hematocrit. Mice fed with engineered seeds recovered to normal levels of hemoglobin and hematocrit within 2 weeks, whereas those that ate WT seeds remained anemic. Our results suggest that an increase in bioavailable mineral content in rice grains can be achieved by enhancing NAS expression.
20080824	Small RNAs (smRNAs) including miRNAs and siRNAs are critical for gene regulation and plant development. Among the highly diverse siRNAs, trans-acting siRNAs (ta-siRNAs) have been shown to be plant-specific. In Arabidopsis, eight TAS loci belonging to four families (TAS1, TAS2, TAS3, and TAS4) have been identified, and bioinformatics analysis reveals that the sequence of TAS3 is highly conserved in plants. In this study, the function of TAS3 ta-siRNA (tasiR-ARF) has been revealed in rice (Oryza sativa L.) on polarity establishment and stage transition from vegetative to reproductive development by over-expressing Osta-siR2141. Osta-siR2141 replaced miR390 in the miR390 backbone for ectopic expression in rice, and overexpression of Osta-siR2141 caused disturbed vascular bundle development and adaxialization in polarity establishment. Transgenic lines also displayed abnormal shoot apical meristems (SAMs) and retarded growth at the vegetative stage. Molecular analysis revealed that overexpression of Osta-siR2141 resulted in the down-regulation of miR166 and the up-regulation of class III homeodomain-leucine zipper genes (HD-ZIPIIIs) in the vegetative stage but not in the reproductive stage. Moreover, overexpression of Osta-siR2141 in Arabidopsis disturbed polarity establishment and retarded stage transition, suggesting that tasiR-ARF was functionally conserved in rice and Arabidopsis.
20081045	Phosphate homeostasis was studied in a monocotyledonous model plant through the characterization of the PHO1 gene family in rice (Oryza sativa). Bioinformatics and phylogenetic analysis showed that the rice genome has three PHO1 homologs, which cluster with the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) AtPHO1 and AtPHO1;H1, the only two genes known to be involved in root-to-shoot transfer of phosphate. In contrast to the Arabidopsis PHO1 gene family, all three rice PHO1 genes have a cis-natural antisense transcript located at the 5 ' end of the genes. Strand-specific quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analyses revealed distinct patterns of expression for sense and antisense transcripts for all three genes, both at the level of tissue expression and in response to nutrient stress. The most abundantly expressed gene was OsPHO1;2 in the roots, for both sense and antisense transcripts. However, while the OsPHO1;2 sense transcript was relatively stable under various nutrient deficiencies, the antisense transcript was highly induced by inorganic phosphate (Pi) deficiency. Characterization of Ospho1;1 and Ospho1;2 insertion mutants revealed that only Ospho1;2 mutants had defects in Pi homeostasis, namely strong reduction in Pi transfer from root to shoot, which was accompanied by low-shoot and high-root Pi. Our data identify OsPHO1;2 as playing a key role in the transfer of Pi from roots to shoots in rice, and indicate that this gene could be regulated by its cis-natural antisense transcripts. Furthermore, phylogenetic analysis of PHO1 homologs in monocotyledons and dicotyledons revealed the emergence of a distinct clade of PHO1 genes in dicotyledons, which include members having roles other than long-distance Pi transport.
20082138	Arginine decarboxylase (ADC) is a key enzyme in plants that converts arginine into putrescine, an important mediator of abiotic stress tolerance. Adc genes have been isolated from a number of dicotyledonous plants but the oat and rice Adc genes are the only representatives of monocotyledonous species described thus far. Rice has a small family of Adc genes, and OsAdc1 expression has been shown to fluctuate under drought and chilling stress. We identified and characterized a second rice Adc gene (OsAdc2) which encodes a 629-amino-acid protein with a predicted molecular mass of 67 kDa. An unusual feature of the OsAdc2 gene is the presence of an intron and a short upstream open reading frame in the 5'-UTR. Sequence comparisons showed that OsAdc2 is more closely related to the oat Adc gene than to OsAdc1 or to its dicot homologs, and mRNA analysis showed that the two rice genes are also differently regulated. Whereas OsAdc1 is expressed in leaf, root and stem, OsAdc2 expression is restricted to stem tissue. Protein expression was investigated with specific antibodies against ADC1 and ADC2, corroborating the mRNA data. We discuss the expression profiles of OsAdc1 and OsAdc2 and potential functions for the two corresponding proteins.
20082685	Human lactoferrin (hLF), a glycoprotein of the transferrin family, has recently been shown to stimulate wound repair through its antimicrobial effect and inflammation modulation. A recent study with several non-skin cell lines indicated that hLF may also have a stimulatory effect on cell proliferation. To explore the role of hLF in wound healing, we used recombinant human lactoferrin (holo-rhLF), derived from transgenic rice, to examine the effects of holo-rhLF on cell proliferation, migration, attachment, and survival in a human primary skin fibroblast culture system. This study revealed that holo-rhLF not only significantly stimulates fibroblast proliferation but also has synergistic effects with fibroblast growth factor-2 and antagonistic effects with transforming growth factor-beta1 on cell proliferation. Furthermore, using a chamber migration assay, our results demonstrate that holo-rhLF promotes fibroblast migration in a dosage-dependent manner. More importantly, holo-rhLF significantly increased cell viability and protected cells from death when they were stressed by either serum depletion or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate exposure. No significant effect was observed on cell attachment. In conclusion, these findings reveal the multiple functions of holo-rhLF in human skin fibroblasts and indicate its potential application in wound therapy by enhancing cell proliferation and migration as well as protecting cells from apoptosis.
2008293	A controlled randomized study was performed in 60 patients with 64 chronic, dry tympanic membrane (TM) perforations. The perforations were randomly allocated to either resection of the perforation rim and instillation of 1% hyaluronan (Healon; HYA) in the perforation gap once daily for 7 days (33 ears) or resection of the perforation margin and application of a sterile rice paper prosthesis (31 ears). The treatment effect was documented by TM photography and morphometric measurements of the perforation area. The hearing was assessed with puretone and high-frequency audiometry. After 2 months, 5 of the HYA-treated perforations (15%) and 4 of the rice-paper-treated TMs (13%) were healed. After 1 year, 18 perforations (9 in each treatment group) were healed. In neither group were there any persistent adverse effects on hearing. It is noteworthy that 28% (18/64) of the chronic, long-standing TM perforations could be repaired by these technically simple and time-saving methods. Both procedures should be considered as easy first-choice alternatives to myringoplasty in selected cases.
20083838
20083840
20083842
20084454	The centromere is a region utilized for spindle attachment on a eukaryotic chromosome and essential for accurate chromatid segregation. In most eukaryotes, centromeres have specific DNA sequences and are capable of assembling specific proteins to form a complex called the kinetochore. Among these proteins, centromeric histone H3 (CENH3) is one of the most fundamental, since CENH3s have been found in all investigated functional centromeres and recruits other centromeric proteins. In this study, the localization of alien CENH3s were analyzed in Arabidopsis and tobacco-cultured cells to determine the interaction between species-specific centromeric DNA and CENH3. Results showed that CENH3 of Arabidopsis and tobacco were localized on centromeres in the tobacco-cultured cells, unlike the case with CENH3 of rice and Luzula. In addition to these CENH3s, CENH3 of Luzula was partially localized in the Arabidopsis cultured cells. These data suggest that only evolutionally close CENH3s are able to target centromeres in alien species. Furthermore, the ability to target alien centromeres of histone fold domains was investigated using amino-terminal deleted CENH3s.
20084509	Commercialization of lignocellulosic biomass as a feedstock for bio-based chemical production is problematic due to the high processing costs of pretreatment and saccharifying enzymes combined with low product yields. Such low product yield can be attributed, in large part, to the incomplete utilization of the various carbohydrate sugars found in the lignocellulosic biomass. In this study, we demonstrate that Lactobacillus brevis is able to simultaneously metabolize all fermentable carbohydrates in acid pre-processed rice straw hydrolysate, thereby allowing complete utilization of all released sugars. Inhibitors present in rice straw hydrolysate did not affect lactic acid production. Moreover, the activity of exogenously added cellulases was not reduced in the presence of growing cultures of L. brevis. These factors enabled the use of L. brevis in a process termed simultaneous saccharification and mixed sugar fermentation (SSMSF). In SSMSF with L. brevis, sugars present in rice straw hydrolysate were completely utilized while the cellulase maintained its maximum activity due to the lack of feedback inhibition from glucose and/or cellobiose. By comparison to a sequential hydrolysis and fermentation process, SSMSF reduced operation time and the amount of cellulase enzyme necessary to produce the same amount of lactic acid.
20084547	A transgenic rice that produces both the alpha' and beta subunits of beta-conglycinin has been developed through the crossing of two types of transgenic rice. Although the accumulation level of the alpha' subunit in the alpha'beta-transgenic rice was slightly lower than that in the transgenic rice producing only the alpha' subunit, the accumulation level of the beta subunit in the alpha'beta-transgenic rice was about 60% higher than that in the transgenic rice producing only the beta subunit. Results from sequential extraction and gel-filtration experiments indicated that part of the beta subunit formed heterotrimers with the alpha' subunit in a similar manner as in soybean seeds and that the heterotrimers interacted with glutelin via cysteine residues. These results imply that the accumulation level of the beta subunit in the alpha'beta-transgenic rice increases by an indirect interaction with glutelin. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed that the alpha' and beta subunits are localized in a low electron-dense region of protein body-II (PB-II) and that alpha' homotrimers in the alpha'beta-transgenic rice seeds seem to accumulate outside of this low electron-dense region.
20084738	Twelve volunteers, using one leg for repellent application and the other leg as a control, field-tested 5 insect repellent formulations--Avon's (New York, NY) SS220 Spray, SS220 Lotion, and Bayrepel Lotion, and SC Johnson's (Racine, Wisconsin) Autan Bayrepel Lotion--against the standard N,N-diethyl-3-methyl-benzamide (deet) in a rice-growing district near Kisumu, western Kenya, in 2 trials in May and June 2004. In addition to a control leg for each volunteer, an additional control was introduced into the study by the use of a sixth repellent, a "null repellent," which was literally a treatment application of no repellent at all. The 5 active repellent formulations were uniformly applied at the maximum Environmental Protection Agency recommended dose of 1.5 g per 600 cm2 in the first trial and half that dose in the second trial, and none of them failed during the nightly 12-hour test period over 6 consecutive days, May 19 through May 24, 2004, and June 14 through June 19, 2004. However, the repellent control legs demonstrated a statistically significant increased landing rate compared to both the null repellent and the null repellent control leg. This suggests that, in this approach, active repellents increased the capture rate on an adjacent control leg compared to null controls. A single human volunteer can act as his/her own control provided null treatment controls are included.
20085895	Plant metabolomics developed as a powerful tool to examine gene functions and to gain deeper insight into the physiology of the plant cell. In this study, we screened Arabidopsis lines overexpressing rice full-length (FL) cDNAs (rice FOX Arabidopsis lines) using a gas chromatography-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC-TOF/MS)-based technique to identify rice genes that caused metabolic changes. This screening system allows fast and reliable identification of candidate lines showing altered metabolite profiles. We performed metabolomic and transcriptomic analysis of a rice FOX Arabidopsis line that harbored the FL cDNA of the rice ortholog of the Lateral Organ Boundaries (LOB) Domain (LBD)/Asymmetric Leaves2-like (ASL) gene of Arabidopsis, At-LBD37/ASL39. The investigated rice FOX Arabidopsis line showed prominent changes in the levels of metabolites related to nitrogen metabolism. The transcriptomic data as well as the results from the metabolite analysis of the Arabidopsis At-LBD37/ASL39-overexpressor plants were consistent with these findings. Furthermore, the metabolomic and transcriptomic analysis of the Os-LBD37/ASL39-overexpressing rice plants indicated that Os-LBD37/ASL39 is associated with processes related to nitrogen metabolism in rice. Thus, the combination of a metabolomics-based screening method and a gain-of-function approach is useful for rapid characterization of novel genes in both Arabidopsis and rice.
20086188	The behavior of transcriptomes and epigenomes in hybrids of heterotic parents is of fundamental interest. Here, we report highly integrated maps of the epigenome, mRNA, and small RNA transcriptomes of two rice (Oryza sativa) subspecies and their reciprocal hybrids. We found that gene activity was correlated with DNA methylation and both active and repressive histone modifications in transcribed regions. Differential epigenetic modifications correlated with changes in transcript levels among hybrids and parental lines. Distinct patterns in gene expression and epigenetic modifications in reciprocal hybrids were observed. Through analyses of single nucleotide polymorphisms from our sequence data, we observed a high correlation of allelic bias of epigenetic modifications or gene expression in reciprocal hybrids with their differences in the parental lines. The abundance of distinct small RNA size classes differed between the parents, and more small RNAs were downregulated than upregulated in the reciprocal hybrids. Together, our data reveal a comprehensive overview of transcriptional and epigenetic trends in heterotic rice crosses and provide a useful resource for the rice community.
20086189	The anther cuticle and microspore exine act as protective barriers for the male gametophyte and pollen grain, but relatively little is known about the mechanisms underlying the biosynthesis of the monomers of which they are composed. We report here the isolation and characterization of a rice (Oryza sativa) male sterile mutant, cyp704B2, which exhibits a swollen sporophytic tapetal layer, aborted pollen grains without detectable exine, and undeveloped anther cuticle. In addition, chemical composition analysis indicated that cutin monomers were hardly detectable in the cyp704B2 anthers. These defects are caused by a mutation in a cytochrome P450 family gene, CYP704B2. The CYP704B2 transcript is specifically detected in the tapetum and the microspore from stage 8 of anther development to stage 10. Heterologous expression of CYP704B2 in yeast demonstrated that CYP704B2 catalyzes the production of omega -hydroxylated fatty acids with 16 and 18 carbon chains. Our results provide insights into the biosynthesis of the two biopolymers sporopollenin and cutin. Specifically, our study indicates that the omega -hydroxylation pathway of fatty acids relying on this ancient CYP704B family, conserved from moss to angiosperms, is essential for the formation of both cuticle and exine during plant male reproductive and spore development.
20086781	When patients present with acute weight training injuries, familiarity with the demands of the activity can help physicians get the most out of the patient history. Probable risk factors for injury include errors in technique (described in a sidebar), skeletal immaturity, and anabolic steroid abuse. Common acute injuries in weight training include sprains, strains, tendon avulsions, and compartment syndrome. Possible nonmusculoskeletal problems include retinal hemorrhage, radiculopathy, and various cardiovascular complications. Treatment of acute musculoskeletal injuries varies, but usually includes sports medicine mainstays such as prompt RICE. Chronic weight training injuries will be described in part 2 of this series.
20086942	Few athletes, whether serious or casual, completely avoid injuries to soft body tissues like muscles (strains) or ligaments (sprains). Though painful, minor sprains or strains often don't require a trip to the doctor's office. What, then, is a mildly injured body to do to get on the right track to healing?
20086977	Medial collateral ligament and lateral collateral ligament (LCL) tears are common sequelae of varus or valgus knee injuries. Assessment, focusing on the physical exam, requires a high degree of suspicion for associated cruciate ligament, meniscus, and posterolateral or posteromedial corner injuries. Nonoperative treatment consisting of RICE, pain modalities, activity modification, and protection with a hinged brace is standard for most injuries. Grade 3 LCL tears usually require surgery. Functional rehabilitation begins immediately. Return to play is generally allowed when the player has regained 90% of usual strength.
20087048	S-1 is a key drug for advanced, recurrent gastric cancer. It is difficult to administer S-1 for inoperable gastric cancer with stenosis. We report that a simple suspension method allows administration of S-1 for improved quality of life. The patient was a 65-year-old woman. She consulted a doctor regarding her poor food intake, and had a medical examination with chest-abdominal CT and gastrofiberscopy. She was diagnosed as type 4 gastric cancer with esophageal invasion. It was difficult for her to drink a cup of water due to the stenosis, but we could insert a 6 Fr-Elemental Diet (ED) tube into her stomach. S-1 was dissolved by the simple suspension method. She received combination chemotherapy of S-1 100mg/body (day 1-21) and CDDP 80 mg/body (day 8). After two courses, her intake was much improved; she was able to eat rice porridge and was discharged with improved quality of life. S-1 suspension with ED tube was effective for advanced gastric cancer with stenosis.
20087656	Ethylene response factor (ERF) proteins play important roles in regulating plant stress response and development. Our previous studies have shown that JERF3 activates the expression of oxidative stress responsive genes in transgenic tobacco and enhances tolerance to salt, drought, and freezing, indicating that JERF3 is a very important transcriptional regulator in dicot plants. In the study reported here, we further addressed the regulatory function of JERF3 in a monocot, rice, by generating transgenic rice plants overexpressing JERF3 and comparing these with non-transgenic rice plants for physiological and molecular alterations and tolerance to drought and osmotic stresses. Growth and development under normal growth conditions were the same in both the transgenic and non-transgenic rice. Interestingly, the JERF3 transgenic plants exhibited better stress tolerance, whereas the non-transgenic rice seedlings showed serious stress symptoms and ultimately died after the drought and osmotic treatments. Biochemical analysis revealed that the contents of soluble sugars and proline were significantly increased in transgenic rice compared with non-transgenic plants under dehydration conditions. In addition, overexpression of JERF3 in rice led to the up-regulated expression of two OsP5CS genes in response to drought treatment compared with their expression in non-transgenic plants. JERF3 also activated the expression of stress-responsive genes, including WCOR413-like, OsEnol, and OsSPDS2, in transgenic rice under normal growth conditions. These data suggest that JERF3 plays important roles in transgenic rice and that it is likely to be beneficial in engineering crop plants with improved tolerance to drought and osmotic stresses.
20088505	The aroma of Chinese rice wine Qu is one of the most important factors that influences the flavor of Chinese rice wine. To better understand the aroma of Qu, aroma compounds in four wheat Qus and two xiao Qus were identified by chromatography-olfactometry (GC-O) after solvent extraction followed by solvent-assisted flavor evaporation (SAFE). A total of 39 aroma compounds were characterized by GC-O. On the basis of aroma intensity, 1-hexanal, ethyl hexanoate, 1-octen-3-ol, and phenylacetaldehyde were found to be the most important aroma compounds in all six Qus. In addition, 3-methylbutanol and 2-phenylethanol also played an important role in the aroma of two xiao Qus. Headspace solid-phase microextraction (HS-SPME) was used for quantifying aroma compounds identified in the Qus. The method enabled limits of detection and quantification of <40.8 and <136.0 microg/L, respectively. Linearity and recovery were satisfied in all cases. Quantitative analysis revealed that volatiles of six Qus had a wide range of concentration. Principal component analysis applied to the data differentiated the six Qus well.
20088507	Amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide is closely related to the onset of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A high-cholesterol or high-energy diet was demonstrated to stimulate Abeta formation and deposition in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) pathway and, oppositely, downregulate the secretion of the neuroprotective soluble APP alpha-fragment (sAPPalpha). Monascus-fermented red mold rice (RMR) including multiple cholesterol-lowering agents, antioxidants, and anti-inflammatory agents has been proven to ameliorate Abeta40 infusion-induced memory deficit in our previous study. In this study, the ethanol extract of RMR (RE) and natural RMR were respectively tested for their effect on the mediation of the proteolytic process of APP in cholesterol-treated human neuroblastoma IMR32 cell, as well as their effect on memory and learning ability and the expression of AD risk factors in intracerebroventricular Abeta40-infused hyperlipidemic rats. In the results, RE suppressed cholesterol-raised beta-secretase activity and further resulted in the increase of sAPPalpha secretion in the IMR32 cell. In the animal test, RMR potently reversed the memory deficit in the water maze and passive avoidance tasks. RMR administration could prevent against Abeta40 infusion plus the great damage caused by a high energy diet in hippocampus and cortex involved in the raise of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances and reactive oxygen species. The neuroprotection provided by RMR downregulates Abeta40 formation and deposition by suppressing the cholesterol-raised beta-secretase activity and apolipoprotein E expression, as well as mediates the proteolytic process of APP toward neuroprotective sAPPalpha secretion in hippocampus.
20088579	Arsenic (As) accumulation in rice grains is a risk to human health. The mechanism of transfer of As from the shoot into the grain during grain filling is unknown at present. In this study As speciation in the shoot and grains at maturity were examined, and the relationships between phosphorus (P) and As, and silicon (Si) and As were established in a wide range of cultivars grown in As contaminated field trials in Bangladesh and China. No correlations were observed between shoot and grain speciation, with the inorganic form comprising 93.0-97.0% of As in the shoot and 63.0-83.7% in the grains. The percentage of dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) was between 1.4 and 6.6% in the shoot and 14.6 and 37.0% in the grains; however, the concentrations were comparable, ranging from 0.07 to 0.26 mg kg(-1) in the shoots and 0.03 to 0.25 mg kg(-1) in the grains. A positive correlation was observed between shoot As and shoot Si, however, no correlation was observed between shoot Si and grain As. A significant negative correlation was observed between shoot P and grain As concentrations. These results suggest that the translocation of As into the grain from the shoots is potentially using P rather than Si transport mechanisms. The findings also indicate that inorganic As and DMA translocation to the grain differ considerably.
20088860	The rice (Oryza sativa) genome harbours three genes encoding CysCysHisCys (CCHC)-type zinc finger-containing glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins, designated OsRZ proteins, but their importance and physiological functions remain largely unknown. Here, the stress-responsive expression patterns of OsRZs were assessed, and the biological and cellular functions of OsRZs were evaluated under low temperature conditions. The expression levels of the three OsRZs were up-regulated by cold stress, whereas drought or high salt stress did not significantly alter its transcript level. OsRZ2 complemented the cold sensitivity of BX04 Escherichia coli cells under low temperatures, and had DNA-melting activity and transcription anti-termination activity, thereby indicating that OsRZ2 possesses an RNA chaperone activity. By contrast, neither OsRZ1 nor OsRZ3 harboured these activities. Ectopic expression of OsRZ2, but not OsRZ3, in cold-sensitive Arabidopsis grp7 knockout plants rescued the grp7 plants from cold and freezing damage, and OsRZ2 complemented the defect in mRNA export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in grp7 mutant during cold stress. The present findings support the emerging idea that the regulation of mRNA export is one of the adaptive processes in plants under stress conditions, and RNA chaperone functions as a regulator in mRNA export under cold stress conditions.
20089146	The emergence of agriculture about 10,000 years ago marks a dramatic change in human evolutionary history. The diet shift in agriculture societies might have a great impact on the genetic makeup of Neolithic human populations. The regionally restricted enrichment of the class I alcohol dehydrogenase sequence polymorphism (ADH1BArg47His) in southern China and the adjacent areas suggests Darwinian positive selection on this genetic locus during Neolithic time though the driving force is yet to be disclosed. We studied a total of 38 populations (2,275 individuals) including Han Chinese, Tibetan and other ethnic populations across China. The geographic distribution of the ADH1B*47His allele in these populations indicates a clear east-to-west cline, and it is dominant in south-eastern populations but rare in Tibetan populations. The molecular dating suggests that the emergence of the ADH1B*47His allele occurred about 10,000 to approximately 7,000 years ago. We present genetic evidence of selection on the ADH1BArg47His polymorphism caused by the emergence and expansion of rice domestication in East Asia. The geographic distribution of the ADH1B*47His allele in East Asia is consistent with the unearthed culture relic sites of rice domestication in China. The estimated origin time of ADH1B*47His allele in those populations coincides with the time of origin and expansion of Neolithic agriculture in southern China.
20091079	A dwarf mutant (Oryza sativa anaphase-promoting complex 6 (OsAPC6)) of rice cultivar Basmati 370 with 50% reduced plant height as compared to the wild type was isolated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation using Hm(R) Ds cassette. This mutant was found to be insensitive to exogenous gibberellic acid (GA(3)) application. Homozygous mutant plants showed incomplete penetrance and variable expressivity for plant height and pleiotropic effects including gibberellic acid insensitivity, reduced seed size, panicle length, and female fertility. Single copy insertion of T-DNA and its association with OsAPC6 was confirmed by Southern hybridization, germination on hygromycin, and 3:1 segregation of HPT gene in F(2) from OsAPC6 x Basmati 370 cross. The T-DNA flanking region sequenced through thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction showed a single hit on chromosome 3 of japonica rice cultivar Nipponbare in the second exonic region of a gene which encodes for sixth subunit of anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome. The candidate gene of 8.6-kb length encodes a 728-amino acid protein containing a conserved tetratricopeptide repeat (TPR) domain and has only a paralog, isopenicillin N-synthase family protein on the same chromosome without the TPR domain. There was no expression of the gene in the mutant while in Basmati 370, it was equal in both roots and shoots. The knockout mutant OsAPC6 interferes with the gibberellic acid signaling pathway leading to reduced height and cell size probably through ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis. Further functional validation of the gene through RNAi is in progress.
20091163	Thirty-three soil samples were collected from the Luling, Liuer, and Zhangji coal mines, in the Huaibei and Huainan areas, Anhui Province, China, in 2007. The concentrations of 16 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs), identified as priority pollutants by the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), were determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The sum of 16 US EPA PAHs ranged from 0.13 to 3.54 microg/g (dry weight basis) with a mean concentration of 0.84 microg/g. Among the three sampling sites selected around the coal mines, the site at the Luling coal mine revealed maximum concentration of PAHs, whereas minimum concentration was observed at the site at the Zhangji coal mine. In general, low-molecular-weight PAHs were predominant. The gob pile and coal preparation plant are the sources of PAHs pollution in surface soils in the vicinity of coal mines. The crops in rice paddies might adsorb some PAHs and reduce the PAHs content in soils from paddy fields. The vertical distribution of PAHs in two soil profiles indicates that PAHs contamination in soil profiles tends to occur high in the surface soils and markedly decreases with soil depth. For all depths, PAHs showed a similar distribution pattern, which is an indicator of a similar origin. The total B[a]P equivalent concentration (B[a]Peq) was found to be maximum at the Luling area, whereas it was minimum at Liuer zones.
20091293	The A1 cytoplasmic-nuclear male sterility system in sorghum is used almost exclusively for the production of commercial hybrid seed and thus, the dominant genes that restore male fertility in F(1) hybrids are of critical importance to commercial seed production. The genetics of fertility restoration in sorghum can appear complex, being controlled by at least two major genes with additional modifiers and additional gene-environment interaction. To elucidate the molecular processes controlling fertility restoration and to develop a marker screening system for this important trait, two sorghum recombinant inbred line populations were created by crossing a restorer and a non-restoring inbred line, with fertility phenotypes evaluated in hybrid combination with three unique cytoplasmic male sterile lines. In both populations, a single major gene segregated for restoration which was localized to chromosome SBI-02 at approximately 0.5 cM from microsatellite marker, Xtxp304. In the two populations we observed that approximately 85 and 87% of the phenotypic variation in seed set was associated with the major Rf gene on SBI-02. Some evidence for modifier genes was also observed since a continuum of partial restored fertility was exhibited by lines in both RIL populations. With the prior report (Klein et al. in Theor Appl Genet 111:994-1012, 2005) of the cloning of the major fertility restoration gene Rf1 in sorghum, the major fertility restorer locus identified in this study was designated Rf2. A fine-mapping population was used to resolve the Rf2 locus to a 236,219-bp region of chromosome SBI-02, which spanned ~31 predicted open reading frames including a pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) gene family member. The PPR gene displayed high homology with rice Rf1. Progress towards the development of a marker-assisted screen for fertility restoration is discussed.
20091713	A method based on pressurized liquid extraction and LC-MS/MS has been developed for determining nine benzoylureas (BUs) in fruit, vegetable, cereals, and animal products. Samples (5 g) were homogenized with diatomaceous earth and extracted in a 22 mL cell with 22 mL of ethyl acetate at 80 degrees C and 1500 psi. After solvent concentration and exchange to methanol, BUs were analyzed by LC-MS/MS using an IT mass analyzer, which achieved several transitions of precursor ions that increase selectivity providing identification. LOQs were between 0.002 and 0.01 mg/kg, which are equal or lower than maximum residue limits established by the Codex Alimentarius. Excellent linearity was achieved over a range of concentrations from 0.01 to 1 mg/kg with correlation coefficients 0.995-0.999 (n=7). Validation of the total method was performed by analyzing in quintuplicate seven different commodities (milk, eggs, meat, rice, lettuce, avocado, and lemon) at three concentration levels (0.01, 0.1, and 1 mg/kg). The recoveries ranged from 58 to 97% and the RSDs from 5 to 19% depending on the compound and the commodity. The combination of pressurized liquid extraction with LC-MS/MS provides a sensitive and selective method for the determination of BUs in food.
20092665	We aimed to identify food intake patterns that operate via haemostatic and inflammatory pathways on progression of atherosclerosis among 802 middle-aged adults with baseline and 5-year follow-up ultrasound measurements of common (CCA) and internal carotid artery (ICA) intimal medial thickness (IMT). Food intake was ascertained with an FFQ. We derived food patterns using reduced rank regression (RRR) with plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 and fibrinogen as response variables. We explored the impact of various food pattern simplification approaches. We identified a food pattern characterised by higher intakes of less healthful foods (low-fibre bread and cereal, red and processed meat, cottage cheese, tomato foods, regular soft drinks and sweetened beverages) and lower intakes of more healthful foods (wine, rice and pasta, meal replacements and poultry). The pattern was positively associated with mean CCA IMT at follow-up (P = 0.0032), a 1 sd increase corresponding to an increase of 13 mum higher CCA IMT at follow-up, adjusted for demographic and cardiovascular risk factors. With increasing pattern quartile (Q), the percentage change in CCA IMT increased significantly: Q1 0.8 %; Q2 3.2 %; Q3 8.6 %; Q4 7.9 % (P = 0.0045). No clear association with ICA IMT was observed. All simplification methods yielded similar results. The present results support the contention that a pro-inflammatory and pro-thrombotic dietary pattern increases the rate of coronary artery atherosclerosis progression, independent of traditional cardiovascular risk factors. RRR is a promising and robust tool for moving beyond the previous focus on nutrients or foods into research on the health effects of broader dietary patterns.
20093750	This study was conducted to test the hypothesis that spatial variations in soil microbial variables in a Thai rice paddy are accurately described by multivariate profiles of the soil bacterial communities. We found that community-level physiological profiles of soil bacterial communities could better describe the population density of Rhizoctonia solani in soil than the physicochemical profi les do. However, soil dehydrogenase levels were closely correlated with soil fertility (P<0.05), and these were better described by the physicochemical profiles. Hence, the hypothesis was rejected, and we suspect that soil microbial variables react differently to the same physicochemical changes. The average population density of R. solani (35 colony-forming units/g dry soil) was relatively high in the soil we studied, and the soil fertility was found to be among the poorest in Thailand. The soil quality was comparable to the most degraded bare ground soil in an adjacent bioreserve in terms of Shannon diversity index based on the communitylevel physiological profile as well as values of soil fertility indices. Overall, the soil microbial and physicochemical indicators showed that the paddy soil needs to be supplemented with soil nutrients. Otherwise, R. solani may cause a significant reduction in rice production.
20093851	Allergic rhinitis is the most prevalent type I allergy in industrialized countries. Pollen scattering from trees or grasses often induces seasonal allergic rhinitis, which is known as pollinosis or hay fever. The causative pollen differs across different areas and times of the year. Impaired performance due to pollinosis and/or medication used for treating pollinosis is considered to be an important reason for the loss of concentration and productivity in the workplace. Antigen-specific immunotherapy is an only available curative treatment against allergic rhinitis. Subcutaneous injection of allergens with or without adjuvant has been commonly used as an immunotherapy; however, recently, sublingual administration has come to be considered a safer and convenient alternative administration route of allergens. In this review, we focus on the safety and protocol of subcutaneous and sublingual immunotherapy against seasonal allergic rhinitis. We also describe an approach to selecting allergens for the vaccine so as to avoid secondary sensitization and adverse events. The biomarkers and therapeutic mechanisms for immunotherapy are not fully understood. We discuss the therapeutic biomarkers that are correlated with the improvement of clinical symptoms brought about by immunotherapy as well as the involvement of Tr1 and regulatory T cells in the therapeutic mechanisms. Finally, we focus on the current immunotherapeutic approach to treating Japanese cedar pollinosis, the most prevalent pollinosis in Japan, including sublingual immunotherapy with standardized extract, a transgenic rice-based edible vaccine, and an immunoregulatory liposome encapsulating recombinant fusion protein.
20094790	Heliobacteria are a recently discovered group of anoxygenic phototrophic bacteria, first described in 1983. Heliobacteria contain bacteriochlorophyll g, a pigment unique to species of this group, and synthesize the simplest photosynthetic complexes of all known phototrophs. Also, unlike all other phototrophs, heliobacteria lack a mechanism for autotrophy and produce endospores. Four genera of heliobacteria containing a total of 10 species are known. Species of the genera Heliobacterium, Heliobacillus, and Heliophilum grow best at neutral pH, whereas species of Heliorestis are alkaliphilic. Heliobacterium, Heliobacillus, and Heliophilum species form one phylogenetic clade of heliobacteria, while Heliorestis species form a second within the phylum Firmicutes of the domain Bacteria. Heliobacteria have a unique ecology, being primarily terrestrial rather than aquatic phototrophs, and may have evolved a mutualistic relationship with plants, in particular, rice plants. The genome sequence of the thermophile Heliobacterium modesticaldum supports the hypothesis that heliobacteria are "minimalist phototrophs" and that they may have played a key role in the evolution of phototrophic bacteria.
20094886	Rice, the major food crop of world is severely affected by homopteran sucking pests. We introduced coding sequence of Allium sativum leaf agglutinin, ASAL, in rice cultivar IR64 to develop sustainable resistance against sap-sucking planthoppers as well as eliminated the selectable antibiotic-resistant marker gene hygromycin phosphotransferase (hpt) exploiting cre/lox site-specific recombination system. An expression vector was constructed containing the coding sequence of ASAL, a potent controlling agent against green leafhoppers (GLH, Nephotettix virescens) and brown planthopper (BPH, Nilaparvata lugens). The selectable marker (hpt) gene cassette was cloned within two lox sites of the same vector. Alongside, another vector was developed with chimeric cre recombinase gene cassette. Reciprocal crosses were performed between three single-copy T(0) plants with ASAL- lox-hpt-lox T-DNA and three single-copy T(0) plants with cre-bar T-DNA. Marker gene excisions were detected in T(1) hybrids through hygromycin sensitivity assay. Molecular analysis of T(1) plants exhibited 27.4% recombination efficiency. T(2) progenies of L03C04(1) hybrid parent showed 25% cre negative ASAL-expressing plants. Northern blot, western blot and ELISA showed significant level of ASAL expression in five marker-free T(2) progeny plants. In planta bioassay of GLH and BPH performed on these T(2) progenies exhibited radical reduction in survivability and fecundity compared with the untransformed control plants.
20095671	We discuss the possible role of energy nonaccommodation (monomer-cluster collisions that do not result in stable product formation due to liberated excess energy) in atmospheric nucleation processes involving sulfuric acid. Qualitative estimates of the role of nonaccommodation are computed using quantum Rice-Ramsberger-Kassel theory together with quantum chemically calculated vibrational frequencies and anharmonic coupling constants for small sulfuric acid-containing clusters. We find that energy nonaccommodation effects may, at most, decrease the net formation rate of sulfuric acid dimers by up to a factor of 10 with respect to the hard-sphere collision rate. A decrease in energy nonaccommodation due to an increasing number of internal degrees of freedom may kinetically slightly favor the participation of amines rather than ammonia as stabilizing agents in sulfuric acid nucleation, though the kinetic enhancement factor is likely to be less than three. However, hydration of the clusters (which always occurs in ambient conditions) is likely to increase the energy accommodation factor, reducing the role that energy nonaccommodation plays in atmospheric nucleation.
20096567	The effects of exogenous cellulase application on straw decomposition, soil fertility, and plant growth were investigated with nylon bag and pot experiments. Cellulase application promoted straw decomposition, and the decomposition rates of rice and wheat straw increased by 6.3-26.0% and 6.8-28.0%, respectively, in the nylon bag experiments. In pot experiments soil-available N and P contents, soil cellulase activity, and growth of rice seedlings increased. Soil respiration rate and microbial population were unaffected. Seventy Ug(-1) was the optimal cellulase concentration for plant growth. The exogenous cellulase persisted in soil for more than 100days. Although the data show that exogenous cellulase application can enhance soil fertility and plant growth in the short-term due to the acceleration of straw decomposition and has the potential to be an environment-friendly approach to manage straw, cellulase application to soil seems currently not economical.
20096569	Batch trials were carried out to asses the biogas productivity potential of rice and barley straw, grape stalks, grape marcs, maize drying up residues, tomato skins and seeds, and whey. Trials were carried out in 2l glass digesters kept in a thermostate controlled room at 40 degrees C for 40days. The most productive biomasses, in terms of specific methane yield, were the whey and the maize drying up residues. Their specific methane yields were 501 and 317l(N) CH(4) *kgSV(-1), respectively. Barley and rice straw gave a specific methane yield of 229 and 195l(N) *kgVS(-1). Similar result was also obtained from tomato skins and seeds. Grape stalks and grape marcs produced lowest amounts of specific methane, respectively, 98 and 116l(N) CH(4) *kgSV(-1). According to trial results and considering the availability of examined biomasses in Italy, it is possible to estimate their total energetic potential close to a value of 21,900TJ *year(-1). This energetic potential value is equal to that obtainable from the anaerobic digestion of about 6.5 million tons of maize silage.
20097112	Cassava, a major carbohydrate source in Africa, contains potentially diabetogenic chemicals, although its consumption is not associated with incident diabetes. As it is not known whether cassava intake impairs residual beta-cell function in patients with type 2 diabetes (T2D), our study compared the metabolic phenotypes of diet- and/or oral antidiabetic drug (OAD)-treated T2D patients in South Kivu (Democratic Republic of the Congo) with [Cassava (+); n=147] and without [Cassava (-); n=46] self-reported cassava consumption. A total of 193 patients [male:female (%) 37:63; mean +/-1 SD age: 56+/-11 years] were interviewed to determine the frequency and distribution of eight major dietary carbohydrate (CHO) sources (cassava, plantain, rice, maize, bread, sorghum, potatoes and legumes). Fasting glucose, insulin and lipid levels were obtained after an overnight fast and OAD discontinuation. Cassava (+) and Cassava (-) groups were compared for HOMA indices of insulin sensitivity (S), beta-cell function (B), hyperbolic product (B x S) and B x S loss rate (B x S LR). Diabetes duration was 6+/-7 years, age at diabetes diagnosis was 51+/-11 years and BMI was 25+/-5 kg/m(2). Cassava intake was reported by 76% of patients, and amounted to 29+/-11% of their daily CHO intake. The Cassava (-) group ate more plantain, maize, bread and potatoes, and less sorghum. Age, gender and age at diabetes diagnosis did not differ between Cassava (+) and (-) patients, nor did BMI, fat mass, waist circumference, lipid profile and metabolic syndrome prevalence. HOMA indices of S, B, B x S and B x S LR did not differ significantly between groups-Cassava (+) vs (-): S, 114+/-56% vs 114+/-60%; B, 34+/-30% vs 39+/-32%; B x S, 38+/-35% vs 40+/-31%; and B x S LR, 1.19+/-0.84% vs 1.09+/-0.65% per year-nor did the glucose-lowering modalities. Cassava consumption in South Kivu is not associated with changes in T2D phenotype or in the glucose homoeostasis determinants S, B, B x S and B x S LR. Cassava consumption does not accelerate beta-cell function loss in such a population, whose markedly compromised glucose homoeostasis renders them vulnerable to environmentally acquired beta-cell impairment.
20097728
20097791	High-throughput technology has facilitated genome-scale analyses of transcriptomic adjustments in response to environmental perturbations with an oxygen deprivation component, such as transient hypoxia or anoxia, root waterlogging, or complete submergence. We showed previously that Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) seedlings elevate the levels of hundreds of transcripts, including a core group of 49 genes that are prioritized for translation across cell types of both shoots and roots. To recognize low-oxygen responses that are evolutionarily conserved versus species specific, we compared the transcriptomic reconfiguration in 21 organisms from four kingdoms (Plantae, Animalia, Fungi, and Bacteria). Sorting of organism proteomes into clusters of putative orthologs identified broadly conserved responses associated with glycolysis, fermentation, alternative respiration, metabolite transport, reactive oxygen species amelioration, chaperone activity, and ribosome biogenesis. Differentially regulated genes involved in signaling and transcriptional regulation were poorly conserved across kingdoms. Strikingly, nearly half of the induced mRNAs of Arabidopsis seedlings encode proteins of unknown function, of which over 40% had up-regulated orthologs in poplar (Populus trichocarpa), rice (Oryza sativa), or Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Sixteen HYPOXIA-RESPONSIVE UNKNOWN PROTEIN (HUP) genes, including four that are Arabidopsis specific, were ectopically overexpressed and evaluated for their effect on seedling tolerance to oxygen deprivation. This allowed the identification of HUPs coregulated with genes associated with anaerobic metabolism and other processes that significantly enhance or reduce stress survival when ectopically overexpressed. These findings illuminate both broadly conserved and plant-specific low-oxygen stress responses and confirm that plant-specific HUPs with limited phylogenetic distribution influence low-oxygen stress endurance.
20097792	The ethylene-responsive element binding factor-associated amphiphilic repression (EAR) motif is a transcriptional regulatory motif identified in members of the ethylene-responsive element binding factor, C2H2, and auxin/indole-3-acetic acid families of transcriptional regulators. Sequence comparison of the core EAR motif sites from these proteins revealed two distinct conservation patterns: LxLxL and DLNxxP. Proteins containing these motifs play key roles in diverse biological functions by negatively regulating genes involved in developmental, hormonal, and stress signaling pathways. Through a genome-wide bioinformatics analysis, we have identified the complete repertoire of the EAR repressome in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) comprising 219 proteins belonging to 21 different transcriptional regulator families. Approximately 72% of these proteins contain a LxLxL type of EAR motif, 22% contain a DLNxxP type of EAR motif, and the remaining 6% have a motif where LxLxL and DLNxxP are overlapping. Published in vitro and in planta investigations support approximately 40% of these proteins functioning as negative regulators of gene expression. Comparative sequence analysis of EAR motif sites and adjoining regions has identified additional preferred residues and potential posttranslational modification sites that may influence the functionality of the EAR motif. Homology searches against protein databases of poplar (Populus trichocarpa), grapevine (Vitis vinifera), rice (Oryza sativa), and sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) revealed that the EAR motif is conserved across these diverse plant species. This genome-wide analysis represents the most extensive survey of EAR motif-containing proteins in Arabidopsis to date and provides a resource enabling investigations into their biological roles and the mechanism of EAR motif-mediated transcriptional regulation.
20097796	A novel hydrogenotrophic methanogen, designated strain MRE50(T), was isolated from a methanogenic consortium, which was originally established from an Italian rice field soil. Cells were non-motile rods, 1.3-2.8 μm long and 0.4-0.7 μm wide. Coccoid cells were also observed in cultures at the late-exponential phase of growth. Strain MRE50(T) grew at 37-55 °C (optimally at 45 °C), at pH 6-7.8 (optimally at pH 7.0) and in the presence of 0-20 g NaCl l(-1). The isolate utilized H(2)/CO(2) and formate for growth and methane production. Phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA gene and the methanogen-specific marker gene mcrA showed that strain MRE50(T) is affiliated with the order Methanocellales, previously known as uncultured archaeal group Rice Cluster I. Based on both 16S rRNA gene and mcrA gene sequences, strain MRE50(T) was related most closely to Methanocella paludicola SANAE(T). Levels of sequence similarity were 92.5 and 86.1 %, respectively, indicating that strains MRE50(T) and Methanocella paludicola SANAE(T) represent different species within the genus Methanocella. In addition, although these strains shared phenotypic properties including cell morphology and substrate utilization, they differed with respect to susceptibility to antibiotics, and temperature and NaCl ranges for growth. Given the phenotypic differences and the distinct phylogenetic placement of the new isolate relative to the type species of the genus Methanocella, strain MRE50(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Methanocella, for which the name Methanocella arvoryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is MRE50(T) (=NBRC 105507(T) =DSM 22066(T)).
20097806	By placing the anode of a sediment microbial fuel cell (SMFC) in the rhizosphere of a rice plant, root-excreted rhizodeposits can be microbially oxidized with concomitant current generation. Here, various molecular techniques were used to characterize the composition of bacterial and archaeal communities on such anodes, as influenced by electrical circuitry, sediment matrix, and the presence of plants. Closed-circuit anodes in potting soil were enriched with Desulfobulbus-like species, members of the family Geobacteraceae, and as yet uncultured representatives of the domain Archaea.
20097822	The brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål), the most destructive pest of rice, has been identified, including biotypes with high virulence towards previously resistant rice varieties. There have also been many reports of a yeast-like symbiont of N. lugens, but little is known about the bacterial microbes. In this study, we examined the bacterial microbes in N. lugens and identified a total of 18 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) representing four phyla (Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Bacteroidetes) by sequencing and analyzing 16S rRNA gene libraries obtained from three populations of N. lugens, which were maintained on the rice varieties TN1, Mudgo, and ASD7. Several of the OTUs were similar to previously reported secondary symbionts of other insects, including an endosymbiont of the psyllid Glycapsis brimblecombei, an Asaia sp. found in the mosquito Anopheles stephensi, and Wolbachia, found in the mite Metaseiulus occidentalis. However, the species and numbers of the detected OTUs differed substantially among the N. lugens populations. Further, in situ hybridization analysis using digoxigenin-labeled probes indicated that OTU 1 was located in hypogastrium tissues near the ovipositor and ovary in biotype 1 insects, while OTU 2 was located in the front of the ovipositor sheath in biotype 2 insects. In addition, masses of bacterium-like organisms were observed in the tubes of salivary sheaths in rice plant tissues that the insects had fed upon. The results provide indications of the diversity of the bacterial microbes harbored by the brown planthopper and of possible associations between specific bacterial microbes and biotypes of N. lugens.
20097910	In arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis, host plants supply photosynthates to AM fungi and, in return, they receive inorganic nutrients such as phosphate from finely branched fungal arbuscules. Plant cortical cells envelope arbuscules with periarbuscular membranes that are continuous with the plant plasma membranes. We prepared transgenic rice (Oryza sativa) plants that express a fusion of green fluorescent protein with rice AM-inducible phosphate transporter, OsPT11-GFP, and grew them with AM fungi. The fluorescence of the fusion transporter was observed in the arbuscule branch domain, where active nutrient exchange seems to occur. In contrast, a signal was not detected around intracellular hyphal coils on colonization by either Glomus mosseae or Gigaspora rosea, making the difference between Arum- and Paris-type mycorrhizae ambiguous. We also invented a simple device involving glass-bottomed Petri dishes for in planta observation of fluorescent proteins in living AM roots with an inverted fluorescence microscope. The plant bodies remain completely intact, avoiding any stressful procedure such as cutting, staining, etc. Since rice roots exhibit a very low level of autofluorescence, the device enabled clear time-lapse imaging to analyze the formation, function and degeneration of arbuscules. In cortical cells, arbuscules seemed to be functional for only 2-3 d. Suddenly, the arbuscular branches became fragile and they shrank. At this stage, however, the periarbuscular membranes appeared intact. Then, the fluorescence of the transporter disappeared within only 2.5-5.5 h. The collapse of arbuscules occurred in the subsequent several days. Thus, our device has a great advantage for investigation of dynamic features of AM symbiosis.
20097911	The stromal processing peptidase (SPP) is a metalloendopeptidase that cleaves a broad range of precursor substrates. In this study, we isolated a rice mutant showing leaf chlorosis at the early seedling stage but inhibition of root growth during the whole growth period. Genetic analysis demonstrates that the phenotypes of the mutant were caused by a recessive single gene mutation. The mutated gene was cloned by map-based cloning, and was shown to encode an SPP. Sequence analysis showed a glutamate deletion in the highly conserved C-terminus of SPP in the mutant. The mutation of SPP in the mutant was verified by transgenic complementation. SPP is constitutively expressed in all tissues. Subcellular localization analysis indicates that SPP is targeted to the chloroplast. The expression of some genes associated with chloroplast development was decreased in young seedlings of the spp mutant, but not in 14-day-old seedlings. Western blot analysis revealed that the Rubisco small subunit is not precisely processed in the spp mutant in 7-day-old seedlings, but the processing activity in the spp mutant is restored in 14-day-old seedlings. Moreover, the expression levels of Cab1R and Cab2R for the light-harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein (LHCP) were highly up-regulated in the transgenic plants with overexpression of SPP. The present results reveal that SPP is essential for chloroplast biogenesis at the early growth stage and for rice root development; this is the first report on the function of SPP in monocot plants.
20099850	Gas phase fragmentations of two isomeric radical cationic tripeptides of glycylglycyltryptophan-[G(*)GW](+) and [GGW](*+)-with well-defined initial radical sites at the alpha-carbon atom and the 3-methylindole ring, respectively, have been studied using collision-induced dissociation (CID), density functional theory (DFT), and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory. Substantially different low-energy CID spectra were obtained for these two isomeric GGW structures, suggesting that they did not interconvert on the time scale of these experiments. DFT and RRKM calculations were used to investigate the influence of the kinetics, stabilities, and locations of the radicals on the competition between the isomerization and dissociation channels. The calculated isomerization barrier between the GGW radical cations (>35.4 kcal/mol) was slightly higher than the barrier for competitive dissociation of these species (<30.5 kcal/mol); the corresponding microcanonical rate constants for isomerization obtained from RRKM calculations were all considerably lower than the dissociation rates at all internal energies. Thus, interconversion between the GGW isomers examined in this study cannot compete with their fragmentations.
20100170	Low-temperature stress during microspore development alters cellular organization in rice anthers. The major cellular damage includes unusual starch accumulation in the plastids of the endothecium in postmeiotic anthers, abnormal vacuolation and hypertrophy of the tapetum, premature callose (1,3-beta-glucan) breakdown and lack of normal pollen wall formation. These cellular lesions arise from damage to critical biochemical processes that include sugar metabolism in the anthers and its use by the microspores. Failure of utilization of the callose breakdown product and other microspore wall components like sporopollenin can also be considered as critical. In recent years, considerable progress has been made in the understanding of major biochemical processes including the expression of critical genes that are sensitive to low temperature in rice and cause male sterility. This paper combines a discussion of cellular organization and associated biochemical processes that are sensitive to low temperatures and provides an overview of the potential mechanisms of low-temperature-induced male sterility in rice.
20100202	*Zinc (Zn)-deficient soils constrain rice (Oryza sativa) production and cause Zn malnutrition. The identification of Zn-deficiency-tolerant rice lines indicates that breeding might overcome these constraints. Here, we seek to identify processes underlying Zn-deficiency tolerance in rice at the physiological and transcriptional levels. *A Zn-deficiency-tolerant line RIL46 acquires Zn more efficiently and produces more biomass than its nontolerant maternal line (IR74) at low [Zn](ext) under field conditions. We tested if this was the result of increased expression of Zn(2+) transporters; increased root exudation of deoxymugineic acid (DMA) or low-molecular-weight organic acids (LMWOAs); and/or increased root production. Experiments were performed in field and controlled environment conditions. *There was little genotypic variation in transcript abundance of Zn-responsive root Zn(2+)-transporters between the RIL46 and IR74. However, root exudation of DMA and LMWOA was greater in RIL46, coinciding with increased root expression of putative ligand-efflux genes. Adventitious root production was maintained in RIL46 at low [Zn](ext), correlating with altered expression of root-specific auxin-responsive genes. *Zinc-deficiency tolerance in RIL46 is most likely the result of maintenance of root growth, increased efflux of Zn ligands, and increased uptake of Zn-ligand complexes at low [Zn](ext); these traits are potential breeding targets.
20100242	Atmospheric CO(2) enrichment generally stimulates plant photosynthesis and nutrient uptake, modifying the local and global cycling of bioactive elements. Although nutrient cations affect the long-term productivity and carbon balance of terrestrial ecosystems, little is known about the effect of CO(2) enrichment on cation availability in soil. In this study, we present evidence for a novel mechanism of CO(2)-enhancement of cation release from soil in rice agricultural systems. Elevated CO(2) increased organic C allocation belowground and net H(+) excretion from roots, and stimulated root and microbial respiration, reducing soil redox potential and increasing Fe(2+) and Mn(2+) in soil solutions. Increased H(+), Fe(2+), and Mn(2+) promoted Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) release from soil cation exchange sites. These results indicate that over the short term, elevated CO(2) may stimulate cation release from soil and enhance plant growth. Over the long-term, however, CO(2)-induced cation release may facilitate cation losses and soil acidification, negatively feeding back to the productivity of terrestrial ecosystems.
20100656	Hybrid precursor (HP) of silicon and carbon was synthesized from rice hulls by a novel low temperature method, using sol-gel route. The potential of hybrid precursor to remove Zn (II) ions from aqueous solutions was investigated under different experimental conditions. Hybrid precursor removes Zn (II) ions with efficiency higher than 95% at low concentration. The data revealed that initial uptake was rapid and equilibrium was established in 30min. Pseudo first order, Pseudo second order and Intraparticle diffusion kinetic models were applied to the kinetic data and it was found that adsorption process followed pseudo second order with activation energy of 1.093kJmol(-1). Zn (II) removal was quantitatively evaluated using Langmuir and Freundlich isotherm model and monolayer sorption capacity show the value 28.76mg/g indicating the affinity of HP for Zn (II) ions. The negative value of Gibbs free energy obtained in this study with hybrid precursor confirms the feasibility and spontaneous nature of adsorption process.
20100696	DREB proteins are involved mainly in plant responses to abiotic stresses such as cold, drought or high salinity as well as ABA signalling. However, the function of most rice DREB genes and the underlying molecular mechanisms controlling these responses remains elusive. In this study, ARAG1, a rice DREB gene, was functionally analysed. Antisense and over-expression constructs of ARAG1 were introduced into rice by an Agrobacterium-mediated method. RT-PCR and western blot were used to detect ARAG1 accumulation in transgenics. PEG and ABA were used to test their response to abiotic stresses. ARAG1 was expressed in inflorescences, roots, immature embryos and germinating seeds, but not in coleoptiles, leaves or mature embryos. Drought stress and ABA treatment increased transcript levels of the gene rapidly. ARAG1 knockdown line was hypersensitive to ABA application during seed germination and seedling growth. However, the line over-expressing ARAG1 behaved similarly to wild type in these circumstances. Knockdown of ARAG1 weakened tolerance of the transgenic seedlings to drought stress, while over-expression of it increased the tolerance slightly. In addition, activity of alpha-amylases was enhanced in germinating seeds of the knockdown and over-expression lines. These results indicate that ARAG1 was involved in the ABA signalling and stress responsive pathways.
20101964	A rapid and non-invasive method was put forward to measure the purity of hybrid rice seed by visible-near infrared reflectance spectra. Ninety hybrid rice seed samples (Yixiang 725) with the purity of 90%-99% were collected using a FieldSpec 3 visible-near infrared spectometer. All samples were divided randomly into two groups, one group with 75 samples used as calibrated set, and the other with 15 samples used as validated set. Based on the spectra in the range of 380-2 400 nm, the regression model was established using the PLS (partial least square), and different spectra pretreatment methods were compared. The study showed that spectra information can be extracted thoroughly by the pretreatment method of first derivative combined with standard normal variate, with the SEC (standard error of calibration) of 0.002 5, SEP (standard error of prediction) of 0.006 6, and determination coefficients of 0.988 4 (calibration set) and 0.922 7 (validation set) respectively. The spectra, which were pretreated with the method of first derivative combined standard normal variate, were analyzed by principal component analysis (PCA). The top 20 principal components, which were computed by PCA and accounted for 86.09% variation of the original spectral information, were used to build BP-ANN model for measuring the purity of hybrid rice seed as the new variables. The study showed that the SEC and SEP of BP-ANN model were 0.001 7 and 0.006 1, and the determination coefficients of that were 0.995 2 (calibration set) and 0.936 9 (validation set) respectively. Therefore, the predictive power of BP-ANN model was better than that of PLS model. Results indicated that it was feasible to measure the purity of the hybrid rice seed by visible-near reflectance spectra as a rapid and non-contact way, and PCA combined with BP-ANN was a preferred method.
20102005	A method for the determination of trace mercury in different sorts of Chinese herbs using hydride generation atomic fluorescence spectrometry under different microwave digestion conditions was developed. Under the optimized experimental conditions, the linear equation was I(F) = 809.1 x -3.327 5, the correlation coefficient was 0.999 998,and the linear range for mercury was 0-80 ng x mL(-1). The detection limit of mercury was 0.014 ng x mL(-1) (n = 11) and the relative standard deviation was 2.03%. The recoveries for these samples were 96.8%-102.80% (n = 6) while the detection limit of the method was 1.17 ng x g(-1). The method's accuracy and precision for different sorts of Chinese herbs using the standard reference standard substance of rice (GBW08508), poplar leaf (GBW07601), and mytilus edulis (GBW08571) was checked, and the results were found to be basically consistent with the reference values. This method has been proved to be sensitive, simple and rapid with satisfactory results.
20102202	Betaine and choline are important components of the one-carbon metabolism cycle, linked with the amino acid homocysteine and lipid metabolism. Analyses of broad ranges of foods point to cereal based foods being important sources of betaine and choline, however to date there has been no detailed analysis of these compounds in cereal flours or cereal products. An analytical method based on optimization of an existing extraction followed by LC-MS/MS analysis was used to analyze 47 plasma samples, 32 cereal flours and cereal fractions, and 51 cereal products. For the method validation LLOQ, recovery, inter- and intraday repeatability were all performed. Whole-grain wheat and rye flours, and products based on these were the best whole cereal sources of betaine (747-1508 microg/g) and to a lesser extent choline (76-159 microg/g), while the bran fraction contained the highest concentrations of betaine and free-choline (2350-2899 microg/g and 366-384 microg/g respectively). Refined wheat flour and products contained lower concentrations, while rice and maize contained only very low and no detectable amounts of betaine respectively (0-10 microg/g), and low amounts of free-choline (<31 microg/g). These results were mirrored in cereal products analyzed, with whole-grain wheat or rye-based cereal products having the highest concentrations of the two metabolites. Plasma concentrations for betaine and free-choline in a group of 47 subjects ranged from 15.2-66.3 and 9.8-18.5 micromol/L respectively, within the range of previous reports. This LC-MS/MS method can be used to rapidly and sensitively quantify betaine and free-choline in plasma and cereal products. Whole-grain cereal products and products containing cereal bran appear to be excellent dietary sources of betaine and free-choline.
20102672	The present study was conducted to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo digestibility of dietary starch and its digestive behaviour on the systemic circulating amino acids (AA) in weaned pigs. Eighteen weanling pigs surgically fitted with a catheter in the jugular vein were randomly assigned to three dietary treatment groups. Sticky rice starch (SRS) was hydrolysed more quickly in vitro (P < 0.05) than maize starch (MS) and resistant starch (RS), and was almost completely hydrolysed within 4 h. The in vivo digestibility of dietary starch in different segments of the small intestine was significantly different. SRS was digested (81.9 %; P < 0.05) in the anterior jejunum, but not more than half of the MS and RS was digested in the same segment of the small intestine. The digestibilities of isoleucine, leucine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, valine, alanine, aspartate and serine in the SRS group were higher than in the MS group (P < 0.05), and all nutritionally indispensable and dispensable AA in the SRS group were higher when compared with those in the RS group (P < 0.05). The serum concentrations of nutritionally indispensable AA, proline and serine in the three groups were increased to a peak point within 1.5 h postprandially then decreased gradually; however, the time that serum concentrations of alanine, aspartate, glutamate and glycine in each group increased to a peak point was different. The concentrations of nutritionally indispensable AA, including arginine, cystine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine and valine at 09.30 hours and arginine, cystine, histidine, isoleucine, methionine, phenylalanine, threonine, tryptophan, tyrosine and valine at 13.30 hours in the SRS group were higher than in the MS group (P < 0.05); all nutritionally indispensable AA in the SRS group were higher than in the RS group at 09.30 and 13.30 hours (P < 0.05), respectively. We conclude that dietary starches digested rapidly in vitro have higher digestibility in the anterior small intestine of pigs. Diets containing rapidly digestible starch ameliorate the digestive and absorptive function and regulate AA metabolism to beneficially increase the entry of dietary AA into the systemic circulation in pigs.
20102918	Currently, no consensus has been reached regarding the management of hyperlipidemia in patients who develop statin-associated myalgia (SAM). Many statin-intolerant patients use alternative lipid-lowering therapies, including red yeast rice. The present trial evaluated the tolerability of red yeast rice versus pravastatin in patients unable to tolerate other statins because of myalgia. The study was conducted in a community-based setting in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. A total of 43 adults with dyslipidemia and a history of statin discontinuation because of myalgia were randomly assigned to red yeast rice 2,400 mg twice daily or pravastatin 20 mg twice daily for 12 weeks. All subjects were concomitantly enrolled in a 12-week therapeutic lifestyle change program. The primary outcomes included the incidence of treatment discontinuation because of myalgia and a daily pain severity score. The secondary outcomes were muscle strength and plasma lipids. The incidence of withdrawal from medication owing to myalgia was 5% (1 of 21) in the red yeast rice group and 9% (2 of 22) in the pravastatin group (p = 0.99). The mean pain severity did not differ significantly between the 2 groups. No difference was found in muscle strength between the 2 groups at week 4 (p = 0.61), week 8 (p = 0.81), or week 12 (p = 0.82). The low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level decreased 30% in the red yeast rice group and 27% in the pravastatin group. In conclusion, red yeast rice was tolerated as well as pravastatin and achieved a comparable reduction of low-density lipoprotein cholesterol in a population previously intolerant to statins.
20103978	Since deodorization distillate, a by-product of rice bran oil production, contains squalene (ca. 8%) and phytosterols (ca. 4%) as unsaponifiable components, the concentration of those materials for their use in the cosmetics and food industries is desirable. In the present work, a novel fractionation method of concentrating squalene and phytosterols from deodorization distillate or the unsaponifiable components of the deodorization distillate without oxidative deterioration was examined. Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) with supercritical carbon dioxide was investigated under the following conditions: temperature, 30 degrees C; pressure, 100 kg/cm(2); flow rate of carbon dioxide, 7 mL/min. Under these conditions, squalene was effectively concentrated to 25% with nearly quantitative recovery, and then a more highly concentrated squalene (ca. 50% purity) was obtained by using a supercritical fluid chromatography (SFC) with silica gel packed into the extraction vessel. In addition, squalene with ca. 68% purity could be obtained by repeating the SFC twice. After the saponification of the deodorization distillate, followed by solvent fractionation with hexane, highly purified phytosterols (97% purity) could be obtained, and highly purified squalene (81% and 100% purity) could be also obtained by using SFC combined with the solvent fractionation technique for the unsaponifiable materials. Therefore, it is considered that the present fractionation method combined with SFC and solvent fractionation is an effective means of concentrating squalene and phytosterols.
20107022	We previously characterized the rice (Oryza sativa) Submergence1 (Sub1) locus encoding three ethylene-responsive factor (ERF) transcriptional regulators. Genotypes carrying the Sub1A-1 allele are tolerant of prolonged submergence. To elucidate the mechanism of Sub1A-1-mediated tolerance, we performed transcriptome analyses comparing the temporal submergence response of Sub1A-1-containing tolerant M202(Sub1) with the intolerant isoline M202 lacking this gene. We identified 898 genes displaying Sub1A-1-dependent regulation. Integration of the expression data with publicly available metabolic pathway data identified submergence tolerance-associated pathways governing anaerobic respiration, hormone responses, and antioxidant systems. Of particular interest were a set of APETALA2 (AP2)/ERF family transcriptional regulators that are associated with the Sub1A-1-mediated response upon submergence. Visualization of expression patterns of the AP2/ERF superfamily members in a phylogenetic context resolved 12 submergence-regulated AP2/ERFs into three putative functional groups: (1) anaerobic respiration and cytokinin-mediated delay in senescence via ethylene accumulation during submergence (three ERFs); (2) negative regulation of ethylene-dependent gene expression (five ERFs); and (3) negative regulation of gibberellin-mediated shoot elongation (four ERFs). These results confirm that the presence of Sub1A-1 impacts multiple pathways of response to submergence.
20107024	The ability to nondestructively image and automatically phenotype complex root systems, like those of rice (Oryza sativa), is fundamental to identifying genes underlying root system architecture (RSA). Although root systems are central to plant fitness, identifying genes responsible for RSA remains an underexplored opportunity for crop improvement. Here we describe a nondestructive imaging and analysis system for automated phenotyping and trait ranking of RSA. Using this system, we image rice roots from 12 genotypes. We automatically estimate RSA traits previously identified as important to plant function. In addition, we expand the suite of features examined for RSA to include traits that more comprehensively describe monocot RSA but that are difficult to measure with traditional methods. Using 16 automatically acquired phenotypic traits for 2,297 images from 118 individuals, we observe (1) wide variation in phenotypes among the genotypes surveyed; and (2) greater intergenotype variance of RSA features than variance within a genotype. RSA trait values are integrated into a computational pipeline that utilizes supervised learning methods to determine which traits best separate two genotypes, and then ranks the traits according to their contribution to each pairwise comparison. This trait-ranking step identifies candidate traits for subsequent quantitative trait loci analysis and demonstrates that depth and average radius are key contributors to differences in rice RSA within our set of genotypes. Our results suggest a strong genetic component underlying rice RSA. This work enables the automatic phenotyping of RSA of individuals within mapping populations, providing an integrative framework for quantitative trait loci analysis of RSA.
20107517	Sexual reproduction is essential for the life cycle of most angiosperms. However, pseudovivipary is an important reproductive strategy in some grasses. In this mode of reproduction, asexual propagules are produced in place of sexual reproductive structures. However, the molecular mechanism of pseudovivipary still remains a mystery. In this work, we found three naturally occurring mutants in rice, namely, phoenix (pho), degenerative palea (dep), and abnormal floral organs (afo). Genetic analysis of them indicated that the stable pseudovivipary mutant pho was a double mutant containing both a Mendelian mutation in DEP and a non-Mendelian mutation in AFO. Further map-based cloning and microarray analysis revealed that dep mutant was caused by a genetic alteration in OsMADS15 while afo was caused by an epigenetic mutation in OsMADS1. Thus, OsMADS1 and OsMADS15 are both required to ensure sexual reproduction in rice and mutations of them lead to the switch of reproductive habit from sexual to asexual in rice. For the first time, our results reveal two regulators for sexual and asexual reproduction modes in flowering plants. In addition, our findings also make it possible to manipulate the reproductive strategy of plants, at least in rice.
20107693	To identify geographical areas in Latin America and the Caribbean where biofortification of staple crops, such as beans, corn, rice, cassava, and sweet potatoes, might help reduce nutritional deficiencies in the Region. A geographic information system (GIS) was produced with records on nutritional risks, crop production, food consumption, and demographic and socioeconomic data, for 11 countries in the Region. Four case studies were conducted (in Bolivia, Colombia, Guatemala, and Mexico) using exploratory and descriptive analysis of thematic maps that were superimposed and compared to reveal overlapping and spatial patterns, thereby identifying areas suited to intervention. In Guatemala, the highest rates of nutritional risk, bean production, and population density overlapped in the northeast and southeast areas. In Mexico, spatial distribution of the highest risk levels for nutrition, poverty, and corn production were concentrated in the central and southern municipalities. In Bolivia, bean production tended to be in the eastern part of the country, and nutritional risk, in the west. In Colombia, both nutritional risk and cassava production showed wide geographic dispersion. For Guatemala, we propose iron biofortification of beans in the southern parts of the northeast and southeast; for Mexico, amino-acid biofortification of corn in the central and southern municipalities that produce it; for Bolivia, iron and zinc biofortification of beans in the bean-producing areas of Santa Cruz, Chuquisaca, and Tarija; and for Colombia, beta-carotene biofortification of cassava in the Cordoba and Cundinamarca departments.
20107894	hrf2 gene is a member of the harpin-encoding gene family of rice-pathogenic bacterium Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola. In our previous studies, we observed that harpin(Xooc) could elicit hypersensitive cell death in non-host plants, induce disease and insect resistance in plants, and enhance plant growth. In this study, the rapeseed cultivar, Yangyou 4, was genetically engineered via Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to express the hrf2 gene. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and southern blot analyses of T(1) generation of transgenic rapeseed revealed stable integration and expression of the inserted gene hrf2. In addition, the resistance to Sclerotinia sclerotiorum was greatly enhanced. A comparison between agronomic characters of transgenic and control lines displayed significant differences in terms of plant height, stem width, number of pods per plant, number of seeds per pod, 1,000-seed weight, and seed yield per plant. Among lines with resistance to S. sclerotiorum, T(1)1 had improved agronomic traits compared with controls with a 22.7% seed yield increase. These results suggest that the introduction of the hrf2 gene into rapeseed can be an effective strategy for enhancing resistance to S. sclerotiorum.
20108667	Accumulations of copper (Cu) and cadmium (Cd) in six rice cultivars (94D-22, 94D-54, 94D-64, Gui630, YY-1, and KY1360) were evaluated through exposure to heavy metal contamination (100 mg/kg Cu, 1.0 mg/kg Cd, and 100 mg/kg Cu + 1.0 mg/kg Cd) in a greenhouse. The dry weights of shoot and root, concentrations of Cu and Cd in plant tissues and the Cu, Cd, P, Fe concentrations in the root surface iron plaques were analyzed eight weeks later after treatment. The results indicated that the plant biomass was mainly determined by rice genotypes, not Cu and Cd content in soil. Separated treatment with Cu/Cd increased each metal level in shoot, root and iron plaques. Soil Cu enhanced Cd accumulation in tissues. In contrast, Cu concentrations in shoot and root was unaffected by soil Cd. Compared to single metal contamination, combined treatment increased Cd content by 110.6%, 77.0%, and 45.2% in shoot, and by 112.7%, 51.2% and 18.4% in root for Gui630, YY-1, and KY1360, respectively. The content level of Cu or Cd in root surface iron plaques was not affected by their soil content. Cu promoted Fe accumulation in iron plaques, while Cd has no effect on P and Fe accumulation in it. The translocation of Cu and Cd from iron plaques to root and shoot was also discussed. These results might be beneficial in selecting cultivars with low heavy metal accumulation and designing strategies for soil bioremediation.
20108697	Safety assessment of genetically modified crops generally does not take into account the potential hazard of altered patterns of heavy metal accumulation in plants. A pot experiment was conducted under greenhouse conditions to evaluate the impact of heavy metal amendments on the accumulation of Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn in a Bt transgenic rice Ke-Ming-Dao (KMD) and its wild-type Xiushui 11 (Xs11). In control soils, significant difference was only found in contents of Cu (p < 0.01) and Pb (p < 0.05) in straw between KMD and Xs11. At three levels of Cd amendments (5, 10, and 20 mg/kg), the Cd contents in grain and straw of KMD were significantlyhigher than those of Xs11, and all grain Cd contents were significantly higher than the International Criteria (0.2-0.4 mg/kg) as specified by the Codex Alimentarius Commission (CAC). These results implied that it may be unsafe for growing Bt transgenic rice in heavily Cd-polluted areas. No significant difference in Zn was found between the two varieties with the exception of roots at Zn amendment level of 600 mg/kg, while Pb contents in KMD were much higher in the straw at the lead amendment level of 1000 mg/kg and inthe root at 250 mg Pb/kg. Data on the heavy metal accumulation patterns for the genetically modified rice may be used for the selection of growing areas as well as for plant residue management for Bt rice.
20109194	Free radical-induced oxidative stress is the root cause for many human diseases. Naturally occurring antioxidant supplements from plants are vital to counter the oxidative damage in cells. The main objective of the present study was to characterize the antioxidant and antiproliferative potential of rice bran extracted from an important Indian rice variety, Njavara and to compare the same with two commercially available basmati rice varieties: Vasumathi, Yamini and a non medicinal variety, Jyothi. Methanolic extracts of rice bran from four varieties; Vasumathi, Yamini, Jyothi and Njavara were used to study their total phenolic and flavonoid contents, in vitro antioxidant activities including total antioxidant activity, scavenging of nitric oxide and 1,1-Diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical, reducing power and cytotoxic activity in C6 glioma cells. Correlation coefficient and regression analysis were done by using Sigmastat version 3.1 and Stata statistical package respectively. Rice bran methanolic extract from Njavara showed the highest antioxidant and cell cytotoxic properties compared to the other three rice varieties. IC50 values for scavenging DPPH and nitric oxide were in the range of 30.85-87.72 microg/ml and 52.25-107.18 microg/ml respectively. Total antioxidant activity and reducing power were increased with increasing amounts of the extract. Total phenolic and flavonoid contents were in the range of 3.2-12.4 mg gallic acid-equivalent (GAE)/g bran and 1.68-8.5 mg quercetin-equivalent (QEE)/g bran respectively. IC50 values of cytotoxic assay (MTT assay) were 17.53-57.78 microg/ml. Correlation coefficient and regression analysis of phenolic content with DPPH and NO scavenging, MTT (-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide) assay, total antioxidant assay and reducing power showed a highly significant correlation coefficient values (96-99%) and regression values (91-98%). The results of the present study show that the crude methanolic extract from Njavara rice bran contains significantly high polyphenolic compounds with superior antioxidant activity as evidenced by scavenging of free radicals including DPPH and NO. Njavara extracts also showed highest reducing power activity, anti-proliferative property in C6 glioma cells. In conclusion, it is conceivable that the Njavara rice variety could be exploited as one of the potential sources for plant--based pharmaceutical products.
20109238	Burkholderia pseudomallei is the causative agent for melioidosis, a disease with significant mortality and morbidity in endemic regions. Its versatility as a pathogen is reflected in its relatively huge 7.24 Mb genome and the presence of many virulence factors including three Type Three Secretion Systems known as T3SS1, T3SS2 and T3SS3. Besides being a human pathogen, it is able to infect and cause disease in many different animals and alternative hosts such as C. elegans. Its host range is further extended to include plants as we demonstrated the ability of B. pseudomallei and the closely related species B. thailandensis to infect susceptible tomato but not rice plants. Bacteria were found to multiply intercellularly and were found in the xylem vessels of the vascular bundle. Disease is substantially attenuated upon infection with bacterial mutants deficient in T3SS1 or T3SS2 and slightly attenuated upon infection with the T3SS3 mutant. This shows the importance of both T3SS1 and T3SS2 in bacterial pathogenesis in susceptible plants. The potential of B. pseudomallei as a plant pathogen raises new possibilities of exploiting plant as an alternative host for novel anti-infectives or virulence factor discovery. It also raises issues of biosecurity due to its classification as a potential bioterrorism agent.
20109239	Glutathione S-transferases (GSTs) are the ubiquitous enzymes that play a key role in cellular detoxification. Although several GSTs have been identified and characterized in various plant species, the knowledge about their role in developmental processes and response to various stimuli is still very limited. In this study, we report genome-wide identification, characterization and comprehensive expression analysis of members of GST gene family in crop plant rice, to reveal their function(s). A systematic analysis revealed the presence of at least 79 GST genes in the rice genome. Phylogenetic analysis grouped GST proteins into seven classes. Sequence analysis together with the organization of putative motifs indicated the potential diverse functions of GST gene family members in rice. The tandem gene duplications have contributed a major role in expansion of this gene family. Microarray data analysis revealed tissue-/organ- and developmental stage-specific expression patterns of several rice GST genes. At least 31 GST genes showed response to plant hormones auxin and cytokinin. Furthermore, expression analysis showed the differential expression of quite a large number of GST genes during various abiotic stress (20), arsenate stress (32) and biotic stress (48) conditions. Many of the GST genes were commonly regulated by developmental processes, hormones, abiotic and biotic stresses. The transcript profiling suggests overlapping and specific role(s) of GSTs during various stages of development in rice. Further, the study provides evidence for the role of GSTs in mediating crosstalk between various stress and hormone response pathways and represents a very useful resource for functional analysis of selected members of this family in rice.
20109262	Japanese encephalitis (JE) has been found to be endemic in Bali, Indonesia. A case-control study was conducted to identify factors associated with JE infection. All 94 serologically confirmed JE cases (cases) and 163 cases of encephalitis or aseptic meningitis without JE (controls) identified in Bali during 2001-2004 were included in the study. Potential risk factors were surveyed at hospital admission. Univariate analyses revealed the following factors to be associated with JE: older age, referral from sub-district health centre or private hospital, playing outdoors after dinner, use of mosquito repellent or spraying, proximity of the residence to rice fields, and pig ownership by the family or next-door neighbours. Multivariate analysis identified proximity to rice fields (OR 2.93, 95% CI 1.57-5.45), pig ownership (OR 2.24, 95% CI 1.17-4.26), and older age (OR 1.21, 95% CI 1.09-1.33) as being independently associated with the risk of JE. Because rice cultivation and pig rearing are essential to the economy of Bali, JE immunization is the best intervention for prevention of JE in Bali.
20110776
20111004	Caspases are cysteine-dependent proteases and are important components of animal apoptosis. They introduce specific breaks after aspartate residues in a number of cellular proteins mediating programmed cell death (PCD). Plants encode only distant homologues of caspases, the metacaspases that are involved in PCD, but do not possess caspase-specific proteolytic activity. Nevertheless, plants do display caspase-like activities indicating that enzymes structurally distinct from classical caspases may operate as caspase-like proteases. Here, we report the identification and characterisation of a novel PCD-related subtilisin-like protease from tobacco and rice named phytaspase (plant aspartate-specific protease) that possesses caspase specificity distinct from that of other known caspase-like proteases. We provide evidence that phytaspase is synthesised as a proenzyme, which is autocatalytically processed to generate the mature enzyme. Overexpression and silencing of the phytaspase gene showed that phytaspase is essential for PCD-related responses to tobacco mosaic virus and abiotic stresses. Phytaspase is constitutively secreted into the apoplast before PCD, but unexpectedly is re-imported into the cell during PCD providing insights into how phytaspase operates.
20111947	We investigated the concentrations of Hg, Cd, Pb and As in samples of irrigation water, sediment, soil and groundwater from a field in Tianjin that was irrigated with wastewater. The results showed that the concentrations (Hg, 0.82 microg/L; Cd, 0.18 microg/L; Pb, 1.5 microg/L; As, 8.02 microg/L) in the irrigation water did not exceed the China Surface Water Quality Standard or the maximum concentrations in irrigation water recommended by the FAO. The concentrations of metals in the groundwater of wells (Hg, 0.016 microg/L; Cd, 0.128 microg/L; Pb, 0.25 microg/L; As, 4.65 microg/L) were lower than China Groundwater Quality Standard and the WHO guideline values for drinking water. The groundwater had not yet been contaminated through vertical infiltration-induced leaching. However, a substantial buildup of Hg and Cd in river sediments (I(geo) for Hg and Cd; 5.24 and 3.04, respectively) and wastewater-irrigated soils (I(geo) for Hg and Cd; 2.50 and 3.09, respectively) was observed. Taken together, these results indicated that irrigation with wastewater damaged the soil quality over the long term and that metals more easily accumulated in vegetable fields than rice fields.
20112811	As an integral part of stress signal transduction, the phytohormone abscisic acid (ABA) regulates important cellular reactions, including up-regulation of stress-associated genes, the products of which are involved directly or indirectly in plant protection. Being accompanied by an increased endogenous ABA level, the matured seeds, embryo and aleurone tissues of cereals accumulate several genes and proteins, associated with desiccation. The present study was aimed at investigating how the contrasting rice genotypes, varying in their salt-stress sensitivity, differ with respect to the expression pattern of two abiotic stress-inducible genes, Rab16A and SamDC, and corresponding proteins, in the seeds, at the background level (dry or water-imbibed state) and ABA-imbibed conditions, which could be related to the varietal differences in tolerance. The rice genotypes selected were M-1-48 (salt-sensitive), Nonabokra (salt-tolerant) and Gobindobhog (aromatic). An extremely low abundance of Rab16A or practically undetectable SamDC transcripts were observed in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog seeds under control conditions, induced only after exogenous ABA treatment, whereas they were expressed at a much higher level even in dry and water-imbibed seeds of Nonabokra, and lesser induced by ABA. The RAB16A (=dehydrin) and SAMDC protein expression in the three varieties were also identical to the gene expression patterns. Thus, the expression was stress-inducible in M-1-48 and Gobindobhog, while constitutive in Nonabokra. Our study reflected the similarity of the molecular responses to exogenous ABA of the seeds of the aromatic rice Gobindobhog to that of the salt-sensitive M-1-48, in exhibiting lower expression of stress-tolerant proteins only after stress. This work also proved that variation in gene/protein expression in seeds could be highly correlated with the variation in the tolerance mechanism of rice varieties.
20112873	Potential of methane production and trophic microbial activities at rhizospheric soil during rice cv. Supanbunri 1 cultivation were determined by laboratory anaerobic diluents vials. The methane production was higher from rhizospheric than non-rhizospheric soil, with the noticeable peaks during reproductive phase (RP) than vegetative phase (VP). Glucose, ethanol and acetate were the dominant available substrates found in rhizospheric soil during methane production at both phases. The predominance activities of trophic microbial consortium in methanogenesis, namely fermentative bacteria (FB), acetogenic bacteria (AGB), acetate utilizing bacteria (AB) and acetoclastic methanogens (AM) were also determined. At RP, these microbial groups were enhanced in the higher of methane production than VP. This correlates with our finding that methane production was greater at the rhizospheric soil with the noticeable peaks during RP (1,150 +/- 60 nmol g dw(-1) d(-1)) compared with VP (510 +/- 30 nmol g dw(-1) d(-1)). The high number of AM showed the abundant (1.1x10(4) cell g dw(-1)) with its high activity at RP, compared to the less activity with AM number at VP (9.8x10(2) cell g dw(-1)). Levels of AM are low in the total microbial population, being less than 1% of AB. These evidences revealed that the microbial consortium of these two phases were different.
20113439	Plants often experience challenging hypoxic conditions imposed by soil waterlogging or complete flooding. In rice, Sub1A, a flooding-induced ethylene responsive factor (ERF) plays a crucial role in submergence tolerance. In this study, we examined two Arabidopsis Hypoxia Responsive ERF genes (HRE1 and HRE2), belonging to the same ERF group as Sub1A. Transgenic Arabidopsis plants, which over-expressed HRE1, showed an improved tolerance of anoxia, whereas a double-knockout mutant hre1hre2 was more susceptible than the wild type. HRE1 over-expressing plants showed an increased activity in the fermentative enzymes pyruvate decarboxylase and alcohol dehydrogenase together with increased ethanol production under hypoxia, but not in normoxia. Whole-genome microarray analyses suggested that an over-expression of HRE1, but not HRE2, increased the induction of most anaerobic genes under hypoxia. Real-time quantitative (q)PCR analyses confirmed a positive effect of HRE1 over-expression on several anaerobic genes, whereas the double-knockout mutant hre1hre2 showed a decreased expression in the same genes after 4 h of hypoxia. Single-knockout mutants did not show significant differences from the wild type. We found that the regulation of HRE1 and HRE2 by low oxygen relies on different mechanisms, since HRE1 requires protein synthesis to be induced while HRE2 does not. HRE2 is likely to be regulated post-transcriptionally by mRNA stabilization. We propose that HRE1 and HRE2 play a partially redundant role in low oxygen signalling in Arabidopsis thaliana, thus improving the tolerance of the plant to the stress by enhancing anaerobic gene expression and ethanolic fermentation.
20118181	Sulfate uptake and distribution in plants are managed by the differential expression of a family of transporters, developmentally, spatially, and in response to sulfur nutrition. Elucidation of the signaling pathways involved requires a knowledge of the component parts and their interactions. Here, the expression patterns of the full complement of sulfate transporters in wheat, as influenced by development and sulfur nutrition, are described. The 10 wheat sulfate transporters characterized here are compared to the gene families for both rice and Brachypodium, for whom full genome information is available. Expression is reported in young seedlings with a focus on roles in uptake from nutrient solution and differential expression in relation to sulfate deprivation. In addition, patterns of expression in all organs at the grain filling stage are reported and indicate differential responses to nutritional signals of the individual transporters in specific tissues and an overall coordination of uptake, storage, and remobilization to deliver sulfur to the developing grain.
20118379	To estimate the contribution of uncultured bacterial groups to fiber degradation, we attempted to retrieve both ecological and functional information on uncultured groups in the rumen. Among previously reported uncultured bacteria, fiber-associated groups U2 and U3, belonging to the low-GC Gram-positive bacterial group, were targeted. PCR primers and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) probe targeting 16S rRNA genes or rRNA were designed and used to monitor the distribution of targets. The population size of group U2 in the rumen was as high as 1.87%, while that of group U3 was only 0.03%. Strong fluorescence signals were observed from group U2 cells attached to plant fibers in the rumen. These findings indicate the ecological significance of group U2 in the rumen. We succeeded in enriching group U2 using rumen-incubated rice straw as the inoculum followed by incubation in an appropriate medium with an agent inhibitory for Gram-negative bacteria. Consequently, we successfully isolated two strains, designated B76 and R-25, belonging to group U2. Both strains were Gram-positive short rods or cocci that were 0.5 to 0.8 mum in size. Strain B76 possessed xylanase and alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase activity. In particular, the xylanase activity of strain B76 was higher than that of xylanolytic Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens H17c grown on cellobiose. Strain R-25 showed an alpha-l-arabinofuranosidase activity higher than that of strain B76. These results suggest that strains B76 and R-25 contribute to hemicellulose degradation in the rumen.
2011852	An epidemiological study to examine the dose-response relationship for environmental cadmium exposure was performed in 1843 cadmium-exposed and 240 non-exposed inhabitants of the Kakehashi River basin in Ishikawa, Japan. The average cadmium concentration in rice from each village was employed as an indicator of cadmium exposure and the individuals were grouped according to the length of residence in the polluted area. Metallothioneinuria was used as an index of renal tubular dysfunction produced by the chronic exposure to cadmium. A dose-related increase in metallothioneinuria was observed. The chronic total cadmium intake resulting in metallothioneinuria in this population was calculated to be approximately 2 g for both men and women. The cumulative lifetime dose of 2 g cadmium over a 50-year period, means an average daily intake of 110 micrograms. Thus, these values may be regarded as the maximum allowable lifetime and daily intake limits, respectively for chronic dietary exposure to cadmium.
20118624	We observed that first delivery was delayed when a group of paired mice fed with non-organic common rice compared to a group fed with organic rice. This led us to hypothesize that pesticides or other soil contaminants may be responsible for the effect on mice reproduction. We then found that the non-organic rice was contaminated with a pesticide etofenprox and nonylphenol, butylphenol and diethyl phthalate which are used as agricultural detergents or plasticizers of agricultural film, that are all suspected to be estrogenic. Therefore, the chemicals were administered to mice at the levels detected in rice, and we subsequently observed that first delivery and sperm count of the animals were significantly impaired. This study is the first to show that rice contaminated with agricultural chemicals affects reproduction in the mammal.
20118668	Since Lamarck proposed the idea of inheritance of acquired traits 200 years ago, much has been said for and against it, but the theory was finally declined after the 1930s. Despite of the negative opinions of the majority of geneticists, botanists and plant breeders have long recognized that altered properties during the growth were occasionally transmitted to the offspring. This was also the case with artificially altered properties such as dwarfism, flowering timing and plant stature, which were induced by a non-mutagenic chemical, 5-azacytidine and its derivatives. As these drugs are powerful inhibitors of DNA methylation in vivo, a close correlation between methylation and phenotypic expression was suggested. Subsequent studies showed that rice plants acquired disease resistance upon demethylation of the corresponding resistant gene, and that both resistant trait and hypomethylated status were inherited by the progeny up to nine generations. Whether or not the methylation pattern changes under natural condition was then questioned, and recent studies have indicated that it indeed naturally changes in response to environmental stresses. Whether or not the altered methylation pattern during the vegetative growth is heritable was also questioned, and studies on toadflax and rice affirmed the question, showing stable maintenance of hypermethylation in the former and hypomethylation in the latter for 250 and 10 years, respectively. The observation strongly suggested that acquired traits can be heritable as far as the acquired methylation pattern is stably transmitted. This concept is consistent with the Lamarck's theory of the inheritance of acquired traits, which therefore should be carefully reevaluated to reestablish his impaired reputation.
20120458	When Pleurotus tuber-regium was cultivated on cotton waste, rice straw, cocoyam peels and sawdusts of Mansonia altissima, Boscia angustifolia and Khaya ivorensis, the highest crude protein, crude fat and carbohydrate contents in sporophores were 29.4 (M. altissima) , 1.4 (rice straw) and 61.3% (cocoyam peels), respectively. Sporophores produced on rice straw had the greatest energy value and those on B. angustifolia the least i.e. 3147.6 and 709.1 kcal g(-1) substrates, respectively. The greatest degradation of the components of the substrates as a result of the cultivation was 62.4 and 71.5% for cellulose and hemicellulose in cotton wastes and 60.2% for lignin in K. ivorensis, with the greatest reduction in energy value of the substrate being 2667.9 kcal g(-1) substrate in K. ivorensis. There was no correlation between the extent of the degradation of these components and the yield of of sporophores, while the energy recovery of substrate in the mushroom was highest for cocoyam peels and least for sawdust of B. angustifolia, 3.7 and 0.5%, respectively.
20120495	Faunal diversity is an indicator of soil amelioration. Estimating the population size or density of an animal species in an area is fundamental to understand its status and demography and to plan for its management and conservation. Considering this, faunal diversity in reclamed sodic land was monitored during rainy season 2000-01 at different locations of district viz., Aligarh, Etah, Fatehpur, Mainpuri and Raebareli in Uttar Pradesh. The Shannon-Weiner species diversity index (H) of different fauna complex of each location was compared with zero years (1995-1996) indexes (before reclamation). Insects diversity index, in reclaimed sodic soil, varied from 3.8178 (Fatehpur: Bariyampur) to 4.623 (Fatehpur: Katoghan), which was 3.028 in zero year at Katoghan in Fatehpur 'H' index of other-arthropods ranged widely from 0.9743 (Etah: Bawali) to 2.0674 (Mainpuri: Pundari). The species diversity index of molluscs registered as high as 1.8637 at Ladhauwa site in Aligarh, which exhibited identical with Saripur site of Raebareli. 'H' index of mammal resulted with the highest (2.19) at Pundari in district Mainpuri. The avifauna and amphibian's indices were recovered maximal at Saripur site of Raebareli and Bariyampur site of Fatehpur respectively. Our result revealed that various fauna enriched with soil reclamation, which is good indicator of restoration of land, primarily due to soil-arthropods and earthworms and its eventual improvement along with succeeding rice-wheat cropping system widespread over there. It clearly shows that soil fauna strongly affects the composition of natural vegetation and we suggest that this knowledge might improve the restoration and conservation of biodiversity.
20120504	The effects of light and quantity of spawn on the sporophore and sclerotial yields of Pleurotus tuber-regium, cultivated on cotton wastes, rice straw, cocoyam peel, comcob, groundnut shell and sawdusts of Mansonia altissima, Khaya ivorensis and Boscia angustifolia were observed. The organism had sporophore and sclerotial yield values of 36.8 and 27.6 g kg(-1) waste, respectively, in cotton waste, at light quantum of 695 lux. There was a highly significant increase in yield of sclerotia (188.0 g kg(-1) waste), in total darkness, while malformed fruitbodies (sporophores) were produced in all the substrates under the same condition. Increasing the quantity of spawn from 5 to 30% reduced the period of spawn run from 13 to 6, 15 to 8 and 24 to 17 days, respectively in P. tuber-regium fruitbodies grown in cotton waste, rice straw and sawdust of B. angustifolia, with yield values of 38.0 and 20.0 g kg(-1) waste in cotton waste and rice straw. The optimal spawn levels forsclerotia formation in the two wastes were 10 and 5%, respectively. The mushroom did not produce sclerotia in corn cob and groundnut shell when exposed to light. However, maximal yield values of 286.8 and 288.4 g kg(-1) waste were obtained in both substrates in total darkness.
20120820	Animal movements in heterogeneous environments play a crucial role in a variety of ecological processes. Although a hierarchical structure to the scale of movements has been observed in many animal species, few studies to date have revealed what causes such multi-spatial scale movements within the framework of optimal theories. Using detailed information on movement paths and prey captures by Intermediate Egrets in rice fields, this study explored the effects of individual experience at multi-temporal scales on subsequent movement parameters. The results supported three predictions based on optimal foraging theories: (1) movement distances at small and large spatial scales are determined by past foraging experiences over short (one minute) and long (seven to eight minutes) temporal scales, respectively; (2) responses to prey encounters vary between temporal scales, e.g., prey attacks in the previous one minute caused egrets to walk away (i.e., area-avoided search), whereas those in the preceding eight minutes caused egrets to stay around (i.e., area-restricted search); and (3) the probability of patch departure by flying increases with decreasing intake rates in the previous seven minutes, and the quitting intake rate is mostly lower than the long-term average, not including travel time. These results suggest that egrets make different adaptive decisions at different spatial scales: in response to a clumped prey distribution at a large spatial scale, and to a dispersed distribution or behavioral depression of prey at a small spatial scale. This study showed that the framework of optimal foraging theories is useful for comprehensively explaining the different movement modes in animals. It should also be emphasized that considering both area-avoided and restricted searches at multi-temporal scales is important for understanding movement decisions, particularly in organisms searching for hierarchically distributed resources.
20121025	Methane emission from two rice fields of Lambhvel village, Anand district, central Gujarat, India, was measured for whole cultivation period during pre-summer season. Along with the methane emission, soil chemistry of the two rice fields (Organic carbon, PO4(-2) and SO4(-2)) was determined. The methane emission ranged from 105.67 to 720.64 mg m(-2) hr1, having maximum emission during noon period (11 am to 1 pm) of the day at the rice field 1. Besides, at rice field 2, the methane emission ranged between 201.59 to 430.94 mg m(-2) hr1, having maximum peak during same period (11 am to 1 pm) of the day. The results of the current investigation confirm that the methane emission vary substantially between two rice fields, and suggest that soil chemistry and flood water depth might control the methane emission in both the rice fields and suppressed by the phosphate and sulphate concentrations. The greater methane emission was gradually declined from first trip to fourth trip. Correlation analysis, ANOVA and F-test showed that the methane emission from both the sites has positive correlation with organic carbon and negative correlation with sulfate and phosphate content of the soil and the details of these reasons are discussed in this paper.
20121453	An insertional mutagenesis screen was used to investigate the biology of plant infection by the devastating rice blast pathogen, Magnaporthe oryzae. Here, we report the identification of a new mutant, LY-130, which is defective in multiple steps during infection-related morphogenesis and pathogenicity. Analysis of the mutation confirmed an insertion into gene MoRIC8, which encodes a 480-amino-acid protein that is a putative homologue of the Ric8 regulator of GTP-binding protein (G-protein) signaling, previously described in animals. Targeted gene deletion mutants of MoRIC8 were nonpathogenic and impaired in cellular differentiation associated with sporulation, sexual development, and plant infection. MoRic8 physically interacts with the Galpha subunit MagB in yeast two-hybrid assays and appears to act upstream of the cyclic AMP response pathway that is necessary for appressorium morphogenesis. Taken together, our results indicate that MoRic8 may act as a novel regulator of the G-protein signaling during infection-related development of rice blast fungus M. oryzae.
20122142	Non-host resistance in rice to its bacterial pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc), mediated by a maize NBS-LRR type R gene, Rxo1 shows a typical hypersensitive reaction (HR) phenotype, but the molecular mechanism(s) underlying this type of non-host resistance remain largely unknown. A microarray experiment was performed to reveal the molecular mechanisms underlying HR of rice to Xoc mediated by Rxo1 using a pair of transgenic and non-transgenic rice lines. Our results indicated that Rxo1 appeared to function in the very early step of the interaction between rice and Xoc, and could specifically activate large numbers of genes involved in signaling pathways leading to HR and some basal defensive pathways such as SA and ET pathways. In the former case, Rxo1 appeared to differ from the typical host R genes in that it could lead to HR without activating NDR1. In the latter cases, Rxo1 was able to induce a unique group of WRKY TF genes and a large set of genes encoding PPR and RRM proteins that share the same G-box in their promoter regions with possible functions in post-transcriptional regulation. In conclusion, Rxo1, like most host R genes, was able to trigger HR against Xoc in the heterologous rice plants by activating multiple defensive pathways related to HR, providing useful information on the evolution of plant resistance genes. Maize non-host resistance gene Rxo1 could trigger the pathogen-specific HR in heterologous rice, and ultimately leading to a localized programmed cell death which exhibits the characteristics consistent with those mediated by host resistance genes, but a number of genes encoding pentatricopeptide repeat and RNA recognition motif protein were found specifically up-regulated in the Rxo1 mediated disease resistance. These results add to our understanding the evolution of plant resistance genes.
20122970	The effects of the non-selective adenosine A(1)/A(2) receptor antagonist caffeine on behavior and thermoregulation in chronic unpredictable stress (CUS) model of depression was studied in Wistar rats. In the open field (OF) test, caffeine dose-dependently increased motor activity while decreased grooming and time spent in the corner. Five-week exposure to CUS procedure had the opposite effect in rats. Caffeine reversed CUS-induced effects on the above mentioned parameters. Caffeine (40 mg/kg) increased the motor activity in plus maze (PM) test while at doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg it decreased the number of entries in the open arms. Whereas CUS did not change the level of anxiety, caffeine (2, 20 and 40 mg/kg) administered after CUS diminished it by increasing the time in open arms. Caffeine dose-dependently decreased the immobility time while CUS had the opposite increasing effect in forced swimming test (FST). Caffeine at doses of 20 and 40 mg/kg reversed the effect of CUS on immobility in FST. Caffeine produced dose-dependent rice of body temperature in both non-treated and CUS-treated rats. The hyperthermic effect in normal rats pretreated with caffeine lasted about 90 min while in caffeine-pretreated rats exposed to CUS it lasted about 150 min. High dose of caffeine (100mg/kg) induced significant hypothermia between 90th and 150th minute in control rats and hyperthermia between 30th and 60th minute in CUS-treated rats. These results suggest a putative role of this methylxanthine in the adaptive responses to chronic unpredictable stress stimuli.
20124753	The present investigation aimed at finding out the effect of different degumming processes and on the use of some nontraditional alkaline material for refining of rice bran oil. Attempt was made to treat crude rice bran oil with H(2)O, and H(3)PO(4) for degumming followed by with alum or H(2)O for dewaxing. After removal of the gums and waxes the oil was neutralized with commonly used NaOH, and some nontraditional neutralizing agents like Na(2)CO(3) and NaHCO(3). Finally the oil was bleached traditionally using earth and charcoal and deodorized. The RBD oil was characterized by determining their color, peroxide value, content of unsaponifiable matter, and free fatty acids. Among the different processes tried degumming with 0.2 %, w/w, H(3)PO(4) followed by dewaxing with 2.0 %, w/w, H(2)O; bleaching with tonsil earth (1.5 %, w/w) and charcoal (0.5 %, w/w) and finally deodorization at 220 degrees C temperature and 2-4 mm Hg pressure resulted best quality oil in terms of the measured parameters. The characteristics of refined rice bran oil could be as content of FFA and UM 0.2 (%, w/w), 2.6 (%, w/w) respectively; color 10.9Y, 2.0R (in 2.54 cm Lovibond Tintometer cell); PV 3.3 (meq/kg). The oil yield is 78-85 % (by weight).
20126365	Anthocyanin pigments from varieties of black, red and wild rice were identified and quantified to evaluate their potential as nutritional function, natural colorants or functional food ingredients. Anthocyanin extraction was conducted with acidified methanol with 0.1M HCl (85:15, v/v) and identification of anthocyanin, aglycone and sugar moieties was conducted by comparison with purified standards by HPLC, Ultraviolet-Visible absorption spectrophotometer and paper chromatography. Black and wild rice showed three different types of pigments by HPLC whereas red rice variety did not show any anthocyanins. Out of three pigments detected, one (peak 2) was characterized as cyanidin-3-glucoside (C3G) by comparison of spectroscopic and chromatographic properties with an authentic standard, and another (peak 3) was tentatively identified as cyanidin-fructoside on the basis of spectroscopic properties with lambda(max) of aglycone in 1% HCl methanol at 537 nm, electrospray ionization mass spectra with major ions at 449 and 287 m/z and chromatographic properties. But another pigment (peak 1) has not been characterized. The most abundant anthocyanin in black and wild rice was C3G.
20127663	Resistance to chemotherapy (chemoresistance) is a serious problem in malignant mesothelioma, a highly aggressive neoplasm. Gamma-tocotrienol (gamma-T3) can sensitize various cancerous cells to chemotherapeutic agents by inhibiting pathways that lead to treatment resistance. In this study, we investigated the modulating effect of tocotrienol-rich fraction (TRF) from rice bran, which is abundant in gamma-T3, on chemoresistance in human MM H28 cells. TRF treatment caused a marked reduction in the viability of H28 cells in a dose-dependent manner, while cisplatin treatment had no effect on the cells, indicating that H28 cells are resistant to cisplatin. A significant increase in cytotoxicity was observed in H28 cells treated with TRF, and this effect was enhanced by the combination treatment with cisplatin. The cytotoxic effect was closely related to the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K)-AKT signaling. Inactivation of Akt signaling by TRF or the combination with cisplatin mitigated cisplatin-induced activation of Akt, resulting in reducing the chemoresistance H28 cells to cisplatin. Reduced cell viability and attenuated chemoresistance of the H28 cells against cisplatin were also observed following the use of a PI3K inhibitor, LY294002. These results suggest that the combination therapy of cisplatin with TRF is a plausible strategy for achieving tolerance for the chemotherapeutic agent in MM therapy.
20127755	Fenoxaprop-P-ethyl is a herbicide used on cereals and in particular on rice, the degradation of which leads to several relevant metabolites. The herbicide is used together with an agronomic safener such as isoxadifen-ethyl, which also generates some metabolites. The present work was aimed at developing and validating an analytical method for the determination of the above parent compounds and their main metabolites in the edible fractions of rice. Parent compounds were extracted in acetonitrile and determined by gas chromatography with a mass spectrometer detector, while metabolites were extracted in acetonitrile and analysed by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry. The method was validated through recovery tests in rice straw, grain and plant: accuracy was in the range 76-86% and 90-103% for parent compounds and metabolites respectively. Precision, as relative standard deviation, was in the range 3-11% and 6-17% for parent compounds and metabolites respectively. The limit of detection was 0.01 mg kg(-1) for each analyte, while the limit of quantification was set at 0.05 mg kg(-1). The analytical method is suitable for quantitative determination of each analyte considered in rice commodities.
20128614	Bizen stoneware, with the characteristic reddish hidasuki or "fire-marked" pattern, is one of Japan's best known traditional ceramic works of art. The means of creating and controlling the various hues of the hidasuki pattern has remained a mystery to outsiders for about a thousand years; the methods were known only to master potters who served under generations of master potters before them. In this Account, we present the results of 30 years of study in which we investigated the microstructure and color-formation process in Bizen stoneware. We discovered that the hidasuki pattern results from the precipitation of corundum (alpha-Al(2)O(3)) and the subsequent epitaxial growth of hematite (alpha-Fe(2)O(3)) around it in a approximately 50-microm-thick liquid specifically formed in the ceramic surface. The epitaxial composites include hexagonal plate-like alpha-Fe(2)O(3)/alpha-Al(2)O(3)/alpha-Fe(2)O(3) sandwiched particles and also surprisingly beautiful flower-like crystals, centered by hexagonal corundum crystals and decorated by several hexagonal hematite petal crystals. Bizen stoneware is produced from a unique clay that can only be mined from the Bizen area of Okayama Prefecture, Japan. The clay has an unusually high Fe content compared with the traditional porcelain clay, as well as Si, Ca, Mg, and Na. Prior to firing, the Bizen works are wrapped in rice straw that was used originally as a separator to prevent adhesion. The hidasuki pattern only appears where the rice straw is in direct contact with the clay; the rice straw supplies potassium, which reduces the melting point of the ceramic surface, thereby converting the contact area into a site for these reactions to take place. The effect is almost accidental and is produced without the aid of any artificial glazing and enameling. An unexpected variety of substances, including metallic iron coated by graphite, Fe(3)P, and epsilon-Fe(2)O(3), were also found to appear at low oxygen partial pressures. Many of the techniques used by master potters are passed down through an apprenticeship system; an unfortunate consequence is that they are poorly documented. Moreover, the masters of these techniques are often unaware of the underlying chemical reactions that take place. Chemical studies of traditional processes can provide new inspiration to artists, allowing them to control the various factors and thus produce new works, and perhaps new functional materials. We studied the process of creating Bizen stoneware and then mimicked the color-producing process under controlled laboratory conditions, demonstrating the possibilities of the endeavor.
20128700	Chorismate mutase (CM) is a key enzyme in the shikimate pathway which is responsible for the synthesis of aromatic amino acids. There are two classes of CMs, AroQ and AroH, and several pathogenic bacteria have been reported to possess a subgroup of CMs designated AroQ(gamma). These CMs are usually exported to the periplasm or outside the cell; in a few cases, they have been reported to be involved in virulence and their precise role is currently unknown. Here, we report that the important rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae XKK.12 produces an AroQ(gamma) CM which we have purified and characterized from spent supernatants. This enzyme is synthesized in planta and X. oryzae pv. oryzae knock-out mutants are hypervirulent to rice. The role of this enzyme in X. oryzae pv. oryzae rice virulence is discussed.
20128878	Rice (Oryza sativa) is indispensable in the diet of most of the world's population. Thus, it is an important target in which to alter iron (Fe) uptake and homeostasis, so as to increase Fe accumulation in the grain. We previously isolated OsYSL2, a functional iron [Fe(II)]- and manganese [Mn(II)]-nicotianamine complex transporter that is expressed in phloem cells and developing seeds. We produced RNAi (OsYSL2i) and overexpression lines (OXOsYSL2) of OsYSL2. At the vegetative stage in an OsYSL2i line, the Fe and Mn concentrations were decreased in the shoots, and the Fe concentration was increased in the roots. At the reproductive stage, positron-emitting tracer imaging system analysis revealed that Fe translocation to the shoots and seeds was suppressed in OsYSL2i. The Fe and Mn concentrations were decreased in the seeds of OsYSL2i, especially in the endosperm. Moreover, the Fe concentration in OXOsYSL2 was lower in the seeds and shoots, but higher in the roots, compared with the wild type. Furthermore, when OsYSL2 expression was driven by the sucrose transporter promoter, the Fe concentration in the polished rice was up to 4.4-fold higher compared with the wild type. These results indicate that the altered expression of OsYSL2 changes the localization of Fe, and that OsYSL2 is a critical Fe-nicotianamine transporter important for Fe translocation, especially in the shoots and endosperm.
20128882	Receptor-like kinases (RLKs) play essential roles in plant growth, development and responses to environmental stresses. A putative RLK gene, OsSIK1, with extracellular leucine-rich repeats was cloned and characterized in rice (Oryza sativa). OsSIK1 exhibits kinase activity in the presence of Mn(2+), and the OsSIK1 kinase domain has the ability to autophosphorylate and phosphorylate myelin basic protein (MBP). OsSIK1 promoter-GUS analysis revealed that OsSIK1 is expressed mainly in the stem and spikelet in rice. The expression of OsSIK1 is mainly induced by salt, drought and H(2)O(2) treatments. Transgenic rice plants with overexpression of OsSIK1 show higher tolerance to salt and drought stresses than control plants. On the contrary, the knock-out mutants sik1-1 and sik1-2, as well as RNA interference (RNAi) plants, are sensitive to drought and salt stresses. The activities of peroxidase, superoxide dismutase and catalase are enhanced significantly in OsSIK1-overexpressing plants. Also, the accumulation of H(2)O(2) in leaves of OsSIK1-overexpressing plants is much less than that of the mutants, RNAi plants and control plants, as measured by 3,3'-diamino benzidine (DAB) staining. We also show that OsSIK1 affects stomatal density in the abaxial and adaxial leaf epidermis of rice. These results indicate that OsSIK1 plays important roles in salt and drought stress tolerance in rice, through the activation of the antioxidative system.
20128939	Computer-administered questionnaires have received increased attention for large-scale population research on nutrition. In Belgium-Flanders, Young Adolescents' Nutrition Assessment on Computer (YANA-C) has been developed. In this tool, standardised photographs are available to assist in portion-size estimation. The purpose of the present study is to assess how accurate adolescents are in estimating portion sizes of food using YANA-C. A convenience sample, aged 11-17 years, estimated the amounts of ten commonly consumed foods (breakfast cereals, French fries, pasta, rice, apple sauce, carrots and peas, crisps, creamy velouté, red cabbage, and peas). Two procedures were followed: (1) short-term recall: adolescents (n 73) self-served their usual portions of the ten foods and estimated the amounts later the same day; (2) real-time perception: adolescents (n 128) estimated two sets (different portions) of pre-weighed portions displayed near the computer. Self-served portions were, on average, 8 % underestimated; significant underestimates were found for breakfast cereals, French fries, peas, and carrots and peas. Spearman's correlations between the self-served and estimated weights varied between 0.51 and 0.84, with an average of 0.72. The kappa statistics were moderate (>0.4) for all but one item. Pre-weighed portions were, on average, 15 % underestimated, with significant underestimates for fourteen of the twenty portions. Photographs of food items can serve as a good aid in ranking subjects; however, to assess the actual intake at a group level, underestimation must be considered.
20129631	Ascorbate peroxidases (APX, EC 1.1.11.1) are class I heme-peroxidases, which catalyze the conversion of H(2)O(2) into H(2)O, using ascorbate as a specific electron donor. Previously, the presence of eight Apx genes was identified in the nuclear genome of rice (Oryza sativa), encoding isoforms that are located in different sub-cellular compartments. Herein, the generation of rice transgenic plants silenced for either both or each one of the cytosolic Apx1 and Apx2 genes was carried out in order to investigate the importance of cytosolic Apx isoforms on plant development and on plant stress responses. Transgenic double Apx1/2-silenced plants exhibited normal development, even though these plants showed a global reduction of Apx activity which strongly impacts the whole antioxidant system regulation. Apx1/2-silenced plants also showed increased H(2)O(2) accumulation under control and stress situations and presented higher tolerance to toxic concentration of aluminum when compared to wild type plants. On the other hand, silencing OsApx1 and OsApx2 genes individually resulted in strong effect on plant development producing semi-dwarf phenotype. These results suggested that the double silencing of cytosolic OsApx genes induced compensatory antioxidant mechanisms in rice while single knockdown of these genes did not, which resulted in the impairing of normal plant development.
20130099	Rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings are particularly sensitive to chilling in early spring in temperate and subtropical zones and in high-elevation areas. Improvement of chilling tolerance in rice may significantly increase rice production. MYBS3 is a single DNA-binding repeat MYB transcription factor previously shown to mediate sugar signaling in rice. In this study, we observed that MYBS3 also plays a critical role in cold adaptation in rice. Gain- and loss-of-function analyses indicated that MYBS3 was sufficient and necessary for enhancing cold tolerance in rice. Transgenic rice constitutively overexpressing MYBS3 tolerated 4 degrees C for at least 1 week and exhibited no yield penalty in normal field conditions. Transcription profiling of transgenic rice overexpressing or underexpressing MYBS3 led to the identification of many genes in the MYBS3-mediated cold signaling pathway. Several genes activated by MYBS3 as well as inducible by cold have previously been implicated in various abiotic stress responses and/or tolerance in rice and other plant species. Surprisingly, MYBS3 repressed the well-known DREB1/CBF-dependent cold signaling pathway in rice, and the repression appears to act at the transcriptional level. DREB1 responded quickly and transiently while MYBS3 responded slowly to cold stress, which suggests that distinct pathways act sequentially and complementarily for adapting short- and long-term cold stress in rice. Our studies thus reveal a hitherto undiscovered novel pathway that controls cold adaptation in rice.
20130100	The plant hormone abscisic acid (ABA) is involved in an array of plant processes, including the regulation of gene expression during adaptive responses to various environmental cues. Apart from its well-established role in abiotic stress adaptation, emerging evidence indicates that ABA is also prominently involved in the regulation and integration of pathogen defense responses. Here, we demonstrate that exogenously administered ABA enhances basal resistance of rice (Oryza sativa) against the brown spot-causing ascomycete Cochliobolus miyabeanus. Microscopic analysis of early infection events in control and ABA-treated plants revealed that this ABA-inducible resistance (ABA-IR) is based on restriction of fungal progression in the mesophyll. We also show that ABA-IR does not rely on boosted expression of salicylic acid-, jasmonic acid -, or callose-dependent resistance mechanisms but, instead, requires a functional Galpha-protein. In addition, several lines of evidence are presented suggesting that ABA steers its positive effect on brown spot resistance through antagonistic cross talk with the ethylene (ET) response pathway. Exogenous ethephon application enhances susceptibility, whereas genetic disruption of ET signaling renders plants less vulnerable to C. miyabeanus attack, thereby inducing a level of resistance similar to that observed on ABA-treated wild-type plants. Moreover, ABA treatment alleviates C. miyabeanus-induced activation of the ET reporter gene EBP89, while derepression of pathogen-triggered EBP89 transcription via RNA interference-mediated knockdown of OsMPK5, an ABA-primed mitogen-activated protein kinase gene, compromises ABA-IR. Collectively, these data favor a model whereby exogenous ABA enhances resistance against C. miyabeanus at least in part by suppressing pathogen-induced ET action in an OsMPK5-dependent manner.
20130744	The grass species Brachypodium distachyon (hereafter, Brachypodium) has been adopted as a model system for grasses. Here, we describe the development of a genetic linkage map of Brachypodium. The genetic linkage map was developed with an F2 population from a cross between the diploid Brachypodium lines Bd3-1 and Bd21. The map was populated with polymorphic simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers from Brachypodium expressed sequence tag (EST) and bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) end sequences and conserved orthologous sequence (COS) markers from other grass species. The map is 1386 cM in length and consists of 139 marker loci distributed across 20 linkage groups. Five of the linkage groups exceed 100 cM in length, with the largest being 231 cM long. Assessment of colinearity between the Brachypodium linkage map and the rice genome sequence revealed significant regions of macrosynteny between the two genomes, as well as rearrangements similar to those reported in other grass comparative structural genomics studies. The Brachypodium genetic linkage map described here will serve as a new tool to pursue a range of molecular genetic analyses and other applications in this new model plant system.
20130914	Experiments were done with cultured trophozoite stages of different clonal strains (Histomonas meleagridis/Turkey/Austria/2922-C6/04 and H. meleagridis/Chicken/Hungary/5009-C2/05) of H. meleagridis in order to induce a cyst formation as it is known in other intestinal parasites. It was shown that the best multiplication of H. meleagridis occurred at 40 degrees C in a full medium 199, when fetal calf serum and rice starch had been added. Under these conditions, numerous amoebic stages (8-12 microm in diameter) without and a few with flagellum were seen showing regular reproduction rates. When the conditions of culture were experimentally changed-and thus became worse-by decreasing the temperature, by deprivation of the medium from fetal calf serum and/or rice starch, and by changing the osmolarity, the pH, or the MgCl(2) concentration, many of the amoebic stages (containing starch granules) were destroyed, and several had obtained a spherical shape. If the culture conditions became even worse, smaller spherical stages occurred, which had only diameters of 4-7 microm and which appeared more condensed. Both spherical stages did not contain starch granules. All the previously seen stages disappeared constantly. Since a similar decrease of the optimal living conditions also occurs when intestinal or cloacal feces are deposited outside from the bird's body, the results obtained here may underline the interpretation that some of the formerly amoebic stages are able to become large spherical stages and later small spherical stages. The large spherical stage would be some type of precysts while the smaller ones would represent true cysts.
20131085	Lignin degradation by white-rot fungi has received considerable attention as a means for reducing accumulation of lignocellulosic wastes in the environment. The stimulatory effect of surfactants on fungal lignocellulose bioconversion also has attracted wide interest. In this study the influence of dirhamnolipid biosurfactant on biodegradation of rice straw by Phanerochaete chrysosporium was investigated. It was shown that the biodelignification process of rice straw can be significantly enhanced by the presence of dirhamnolipid biosurfactant. In particular, the dirhamnolipid at the concentration of 0.007% increased the peak activity of lignin peroxidase (LiP) by 86% without affecting the manganese peroxidase (MnP) activity. The water-soluble organic carbon (WSOC) contents in the straw substrates as well as the microbial growth and activity were effectively improved by dirhamnolipid, while the degradation rate of lignin increased by 54% with dirhamnolipid of 0.007%. Observed chemical structural and morphological changes showed that the straw substrates were delignified in the presence of dirhamnolipid with the formation of terrace-like fragments separated from the inner cellular fibers and the release of simple compounds. Variation partitioning analysis revealed that the dirhamnolipid addition induced a significant straw biodelignification which explained 22.1% (P = 0.013) of the variance.
20131789	Rice is a starch-rich raw material that can be used for trehalose production. It can be hydrolyzed with alpha-amylase, beta-amylase, and pullulanase to produce high-maltose content of rice saccharified solution for bioconversion of maltose into trehalose by trehalose synthase (TSase). For this purpose, an efficient enzymatic procedure has been successfully developed to simultaneously produce value-added trehalose, bioethanol, and high-protein product from rice as substrate. The highest maltose yield produced from the liquefied rice starch hydrolysate was 82.4 +/- 2.8% at 50 degrees C and pH 5.0 for 21-22 h. The trehalose conversion rate can reach at least 50% at 50 degrees C and pH 5.0 for 20-24 h by a novel thermostable recombinant Picrophilus torridus trehalose synthase (PTTS). All residual sugar, except trehalose, can be fully hydrolyzed by glucoamylase into glucose for further bioethanol production. The insoluble byproduct containing high yields of protein (75.99%) and dietary fiber (14.01%) can be processed as breakfast cereal product, health food, animal forage, etc. The conversion yield of bioethanol was about 98% after 64 h of fermentation time by Saccharomyces cerevisiae without any artificial culture solution addition. Ethanol can easily be separated from trehalose by distillation with a high recovery yield and purity of crystalline trehalose of 92.5 +/- 8.7% and 92.3%, respectively.
20131802	Stinkbug is a major rice plant pest in Asia. The extract of the culture filtrate of a fungus isolated from a green foxtail, Setaria viridis (L.) Beauv., was found to have a repellent effect on the white-spotted stinkbug, Eysarcoris ventralis (Westwood). The active principle was purified and isolated, and identified as 3-(4-methylfuran-3-yl)propan-1-ol (1) on the basis of spectroscopic data. Four acyl derivatives were prepared from 1 and assessed for repellent effect on the stinkbug; the acetyl derivative 2 was most effective.
20132309	Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) causes bacterial blight disease in rice (Oryza sativa L.). For a study of function, we constructed a random insertion mutant library of Xoo using a Tn5 transposon and isolated the mutant strain (M11; aroK::Tn5) that had extremely low pigment production. In addition, M11 had decreased virulence against the susceptible rice cultivar IR24. Thermal asymmetric interlaced-PCR and sequence analysis of M11 revealed that the transposon was inserted into the aroK gene (which encodes a shikimate kinase). To investigate the expression patterns of the pigment- and virulence-deficient mutant, DNA microarray analysis was performed. In addition, reverse transcriptase-PCR was performed to confirm the expression levels of several genes, including the aro genes of the aroK mutant. Our findings reveal that several crucial genes for virulence, including cellulase and hypersensitive response and pathogenicity (hrp) genes, were regulated by mutations in the aroK gene.
20132516	Fast development and commercialization of genetically modified plants have aroused concerns of transgene escape and its environmental consequences. A model that can effectively predict pollen-mediated gene flow (PMGF) is essential for assessing and managing risks from transgene escape. A pollen-trap method was used to measure the wind-borne pollen dispersal in cultivated rice and common wild rice, and effects of relative humidity, temperature and wind speed on pollen dispersal were estimated. A PMGF model was constructed based on the pollen dispersal pattern in rice, taking outcrossing rates of recipients and cross-compatibility between rice and its wild relatives into consideration. Published rice gene flow data were used to validate the model. Pollen density decreased in a simple exponential pattern with distances to the rice field. High relative humidity reduced pollen dispersal distances. Model simulation showed an increased PMGF frequency with the increase of pollen source size (the area of a rice field), but this effect levelled off with a large pollen-source size. Cross-compatibility is essential when modelling PMGF from rice to its wild relatives. The model fits the data well, including PMGF from rice to its wild relatives. Therefore, it can be used to predict PMGF in rice under diverse conditions (e.g. different outcrossing rates and cross-compatibilities), facilitating the determination of isolation distances to minimize transgene escape. The PMGF model may be extended to other wind-pollinated plant species such as wheat and barley.
20132729	The promoters of OsCaM1 and OsCaM3 were characterized after sequencing and fused to the reporter gene, GUS. The constructs were then transformed into the tobacco plant. Histochemical analysis of GUS showed different expression patterns in pOsCaM1::GUS and pOsCaM3:: GUS transgenic plants. The expression of pOsCaM1::GUS in 4- to 15-day-old seedlings in particular was observed only in the root, while the expression of pOsCaM3::GUS was detected in both the cotyledons and root. Also, pRCaM1::GUS was detected in all the tissues surrounding the root system, while the presence of pOsCaM3::GUS was observed in the root, except in the root meristem. However, in mature transgenic plants, the expression of pOsCaM1::GUS and OsRCaM3::GUS was scarcely detected. Under wounding stress, the GUS activity of pOsCaM1 and pOsCaM3 was strongly induced, and the activity of pOsCaM3 especially, was retained for long periods. In the phloem, pOsCaM3 activity induced by hormone treatments and abiotic stresses was also identified. [BMB reports 2010; 43(1): 9-16].
20134016	Coues rice rat (Oryzomys couesi), a species abundant throughout Central America, was evaluated experimentally for the ability to serve as an amplifying host for three arboviruses: Patois (Bunyaviridae, Orthobunyavirus), Nepuyo (Orthobunyavirus), and Venezuelan equine encephalitis virus subtype ID (Togaviridae, Alphavirus). These three viruses have similar ecologies and are known to co-circulate in nature. Animals from all three cohorts survived infection and developed viremia with no apparent signs of illness and long-lasting antibodies. Thus, O. couesi may play a role in the general maintenance of these viruses in nature.
20134251	In order to monitor the possibility of horizontal gene transfer between transgenic rice and microorganisms in paddy rice field, the gene flow from bifunctional fusion (TPSP) rice containing trehalose-6-phosphate synthase and phosphatase to microorganisms in soils was investigated. The soil samples collected every month from the paddy rice field during June, 2004 to March, 2006 were investigated by multiplex PCR, Southern hybridization, and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP). The TPSP gene from soil genomics DNAs was not detected by PCR. Soil genomic DNAs were not shown its homologies on the Southern blotting data, indicating that gene-transfer did not occur during the last two years in paddy rice field. In addition, the AFLP band patterns produced by both soil genomic DNAs extracted from transgenic and non-transgenic rice field appeared similar to each other when analyzed by NTSYSpc program. Thus, these data suggest that transgenic rice does not give a significant impact on the communities of soil microorganisms although long-term observation may be needed.
20134253	Plant growth promoting fungi (PGPF) are well known for the production of useful secondary metabolites. However, limited information's are available on gibberellin (GA) production capacity of PGPF of endophytic origin. In current study, 15 fungal endophytes were isolated from the roots of Crown daisy, and then screened on Waito-c rice, in order to identify plant growth promoting fungi. The fungal isolate MH7 significantly increased shoot length (12.1 cm) of Waito-c in comparison to control treatment (7.9 cm). In a separate experiment, culture filtrate (CF) of MH7 significantly promoted growth attributes of Crown daisy. The MH7 CF was analyzed for gibberellins and it contained all physiologically active gibberellins (GA1, 1.37 ng/ml; GA3, 5.88 ng/ml; GA4, 8.62 ng/ml and GA7, 2.05 ng/ml) in conjunction with physiologically inactive GA9 (0.83 ng/ml), GA12 (0.44 ng/ml), GA15 (0.74 ng/ml), GA19 (1.16 ng/ml) and GA20 (0.98 ng/ml). The CF of MH7 produced higher amounts of GA3, GA4, GA7, GA9 and GA12 than wild type Fusarium fujikuroi, which was used as control for GA production. The fungal isolate MH7 was later identified as a new strain of Penicillium on the basis of morphological characteristics and phylogenetic analysis of 18S rDNA sequence.
20135324	Salt and alkali stress are two of the main environmental factors limiting rice production. Thus, understanding the mechanisms of salinity and alkali stress tolerance is necessary to modify rice to increase its resistance to salinity and alkaline stress. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 21-nucleotide RNAs that are ubiquitous regulators of gene expression in eukaryotic organisms. In plants, miRNAs constitute one of five classes of small RNAs that function primarily as negative regulators for gene expression at the posttranscriptional level. Several plant miRNAs, such as miR396, play vital roles in plant growth, development and resistance to stresses. In this study, we identified osa-MIR396c, which shows dramatic transcript change under salt and alkali stress conditions in Oryza sativa. We designed an experiment to detect miRNA-target interaction and demonstrated that several transcription factors related to growth, development, and stress tolerance are targeted by osa-MIR396c. Transgenic rice and Arabidopsis thaliana plants constitutively over-expressing osa-MIR396c showed reduced salt and alkali stress tolerance compared to that of wild-type plants. Overall, this study further established a link between salt and alkali stress and osa-MIR396c in rice.
20136040	Presence of pathogens in high numbers in waste water is a cause of concern. Techno economic feasibility has restricted the conventional and non conventional treatment approaches for pathogen removal. Despite prolific use, carbon adsorption technology remains an expensive treatment process. The present study investigates the use of rice husk (RH), saw dust (SD), groundnut shells (GS) as natural agro-residues and partially weathered deccan trap basalt (PWDTB) for their sorption capacities and desorption pattern for two indicator organisms viz. Escherichia coli K12 and Staphylococcus aureus. Sorption experiments were carried out at flow-rate of 1.5 bed volumes per hour (bv hr(-1)) forcell suspension volume of 4, 8, 16 and 32 bed volumes. PWDTB have shown high sorption coefficient and log removal for E. coli K12 whereas GS have shown high sorption coefficient and log removal for S. aureus. PWDTB have shown maximum desorption constant and log retention for E. coli K12 whereas GS have shown maximum desorption constant and log retention for S. aureus during desorption experiment. Retention pattern suggest that adsorption is partially irreversible for almost all the materials used. It suggest that PWDTB in combination with RH and / GS could help in removal of pathogens from waste water.
20137857	In this work, the application of response surface and neural network models in predicting and optimizing the preparation variables of RHA/CaO/CeO(2) sorbent towards SO(2)/NO sorption capacity was investigated. The sorbents were prepared according to central composite design (CCD) with four independent variables (i.e. hydration period, RHA/CaO ratio, CeO(2) loading and the use of RHA(raw) or pretreated RHA(600 degrees C) as the starting material). Among all the variables studied, the amount of CeO(2) loading had the largest effect. The response surface models developed from CCD was effective in providing a highly accurate prediction for SO(2) and NO sorption capacities within the range of the sorbent preparation variables studied. The prediction of CCD experiment was verified by neural network models which gave almost similar results to those determined by response surface models. The response surface models together with neural network models were then successfully used to locate and validate the optimum hydration process variables for maximizing the SO(2)/NO sorption capacities. Through this optimization process, it was found that maximum SO(2) and NO sorption capacities of 44.34 and 3.51 mg/g, respectively could be obtained by using RHA/CaO/CeO(2) sorbents prepared from RHA(raw) with hydration period of 12h, RHA/CaO ratio of 2.33 and CeO(2) loading of 8.95%.
20137923	The simultaneous hydrolysis/dehydration reaction of sugarcane bagasse, rice husk and corncob was studied under hot compressed water in the presence of TiO(2), ZrO(2) and TiO(2)-ZrO(2) at 473-673K. Among them, the reaction of corncob at 573K in the presence of TiO(2)-ZrO(2) produced the highest furfural and 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) yields (10.3% and 8.6%) with less by-products (i.e. glucose, fructose, xylose, and 1,6-anhydroglucose) selectivities. It was found that the catalyst preparation procedure and calcination temperature strongly affected its reactivity. Catalysts prepared by (co-) precipitation method gained higher reactivity than those prepared by sol-gel and physical mixing methods. The suitable calcination temperature for TiO(2) and ZrO(2) was at 773K, whereas that for TiO(2)-ZrO(2) was at 873K; the XRD patterns revealed that different portions of phase formation were observed over catalysts with different calcination temperature. The portion of these phase formations affected the acidity-basicity of catalyst and thus the catalyst reactivity.
20137962	Arabidopsis thaliana was thought to contain two spermine synthase genes, ACAULIS 5 (ACL5) and SPMS. Recent investigations, however, revealed that the ACL5 gene encodes thermospermine synthase. In this study, we have established a simple method to separate two isomers of tetraamine, spermine and thermospermine, in extracts from plant tissues of less than 500 mg. Polyamines (PAs) extracted from plant tissues were benzoylated, and the derivatives were completely resolved by high-performance liquid chromatography on a C18 reverse-phase column, by eluting with 42% (v/v) acetonitrile in water in an isocratic manner at 30 degrees C and monitoring at 254 nm. The relevance of the method was confirmed by co-chromatography with respective PAs and by the PA analysis of the single- and double-mutants of acl5 and spms, which could not synthesize thermospermine and/or spermine, respectively. Furthermore, with this method, we monitored the thermospermine contents in various tissues of A. thaliana and found that stems and flowers contain two- to three-fold more thermospermine compared to whole seedlings and mature leaves. The presence of thermospermine was confirmed in Oryza sativa and Lycopersicon pesculentum. Finally we addressed whether salinity stress changes the contents of PAs including thermospermine in Arabidopsis.
2013832	A sample of 62 elderly from the Vietnamese Senior Citizens Association responded to a 24-hour dietary recall interview regarding their eating habits and food preferences in order to examine their health status. Results indicated that one-fifth of those sampled had milk at breakfast. The majority of elderly still consumed rice at both lunch and supper, and 94 percent did not snack. Thirty-one percent took vitamin supplements. The health problems most frequently mentioned were anemia, arthritis, hypertension, and diabetes. Research on food habits and diet in relation to diseases of this ethnic group is much needed.
20138828	MicroRNA (miRNA), recently recognized as a critical post-transcriptional modulator of gene expression, is involved in numerous biological processes in both animals and plants. Although eudicots and monocots, such as the model plants Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) and rice (Oryza sativa), possess distinct root systems, several homologous miRNA families are reported to be involved in root growth control in both plants. Consistent with recent notion that numerous signaling pathways are implicated in root development, these miRNAs are implicated in auxin signaling, nutrition metabolism, or stress response and have potential role in mediating the signal interactions. However, a recapitulative representation of these results is especially desired. This review provides a global view of the involvement of miRNAs in root development focusing on the two plants, Arabidopsis and rice. Based on current research advances, several innovative mechanisms of miRNA transcription, feedback regulatory circuit between miRNAs and transcription factors (TFs), and miRNA-mediated signal interactions are also discussed.
20138853	Lead (Pb) is a known neurotoxicant in humans and experimental animals. Numerous studies have provided evidence that humans, especially young children, and animals chronically intoxicated with low levels of Pb show learning and memory impairments. Unfortunately, Pb-poisoning cases continue to occur in many countries. Because the current treatment options are very limited, there is a need for alternative methods to attenuate Pb toxicity. In this study, the weaning (postnatal day 21, PND21) rats were randomly divided into five groups: the control group (AIN-93G diet, de-ionized water), the lead acetate (PbAC) group (AIN-93G diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water), the lead acetate+WR group (white rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+WR), the lead acetate+BR group (brown rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+BR) and the lead acetate+PR group (pre-germinated brown rice diet, 2g/L PbAC in de-ionized water; PbAC+PR). The animals received the different diets until PND60, and then the experiments were terminated. The protective effects of pre-germinated brown rice (PR) on Pb-induced learning and memory impairment in weaning rats were assessed by the Morris water maze and one-trial-learning passive avoidance test. The anti-oxidative effects of feeding a PR diet to Pb-exposed rats were evaluated. The levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS) were determined by flow cytometry. The levels of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine (8-OHdG), gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and glutamate were determined by HPLC. Our data showed that feeding a PR diet decreased the accumulation of lead and decreased Pb-induced learning and memory deficits in developing rats. The mechanisms might be related to the anti-oxidative effects and large amount of GABA in PR. Our study provides a regimen to reduce Pb-induced toxicity, especially future learning and memory deficits in the developing brain.
20139593	A rice ubiquitin-related modifier-1 (Rurm1) gene was cloned and transformed in Escherichia coli. We successfully expressed the RURM1 protein as a glutathione S-transferase (GST)-fusion protein by cultivating the E. coli cells at 16 degrees C for 16 h. After cleavage of GST, we obtained a single protein of 12 kDa. This protein was identified as the RURM1 protein by western blot analysis.
20139630	Cookies containing iron, defatted rice bran, and several oils were prepared, and their oxidative stability evaluated. Oxidation was suppressed by the defatted rice bran, but a limit to the suppressive effect was observed. The maximum peroxide values obtained with defatted rice bran were low, and similar, regardless of the degree of unsaturation of the oils. A chemical analysis suggested that proteins and polyphenols in the defatted rice bran contributed to the suppressive effect. Cookies without the defatted rice bran showed decreasing maximum peroxide value as the relative humidity increased. No such dependence was observed for the cookies containing defatted rice bran. The water sorption isotherm of defatted rice bran indicated that the weak dependence was due to low water sorption.
20140030	Thermosensitive genic male-sterile (TGMS) rice is widely used in hybrid rice production. Because of its specific temperature requirement, it can be used only in a narrow rice-growing zone in Asia. A newly discovered TGMS line, G20S, has an opposite phenotype compared with normal TGMS lines. G20S is completely sterile when the temperature is lower than 29.5 degrees C. Thus, it can be widely used in a larger area. Genetic analysis indicated that the sterility of G20S was controlled by a single recessive gene that was named tms6(t). An F2 population from the cross between G20S and Jing226 was developed and used for molecular mapping of the tms6(t) gene. The simple sequence repeat technique, combined with bulked segregant analysis, was used to screen markers linked to the target gene, and linkage markers such as RM216, RM2504, RM3152, and RM4455 were identified. These markers are all located on chromosome 10; therefore, tms6(t) was subsequently mapped on chromosome 10. Co-segregation analysis using the F2 population showed that two of these markers, RM3152 and RM4455, were closely linked to tms6(t) at distances of 3.00 cM and 1.10 cM, respectively. Additionally, integration of the genetic and physical maps showed that there were 15 BAC/PAC clones overlapping between RM3152 and RM4455, and tms6(t) was mapped to an interval of 1455 kb.
20140455	Reproductive isolation plays an important role in speciation as it restricts gene flow and accelerates genetic divergence between formerly interbreeding population. In rice, hybrid breakdown is a common reproductive isolation observed in both intra and inter-specific crosses. It is a type of post-zygotic reproductive isolation in which sterility and weakness are manifested in the F(2) and later generations. In this study, the physiological and molecular basis of hybrid breakdown caused by two recessive genes, hbd2 and hbd3, in a cross between japonica variety, Koshihikari, and indica variety, Habataki, were investigated. Fine mapping of hbd2 resulted in the identification of the causal gene as casein kinase I (CKI1). Further analysis revealed that hbd2-CKI1 allele gains its deleterious function that causes the weakness phenotype by a change of one amino acid. As for the other gene, hbd3 was mapped to the NBS-LRR gene cluster region. It is the most common class of R-gene that triggers the immune signal in response to pathogen attack. Expression analysis of pathogen response marker genes suggested that weakness phenotype in this hybrid breakdown can be attributed to an autoimmune response. So far, this is the first evidence linking autoimmune response to post-zygotic isolation in rice. This finding provides a new insight in understanding the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms establishing post-zygotic isolation in plants.
20141487	This study determined the glycemic index (GI) of selected carbohydrate-rich foods consumed in Qatar. Recruited volunteers (n = 19) consumed two reference foods, glucose and white bread, and 10 test foods. The foods tested for their GI were Fatayer (cheese, Zaatar, spinach), Tanour white bread, white basmati rice, Shearia, Muhalabea, Sago Awama and Qurs Aquili. Results of the study indicated that all of the foods tested had high GIs (> 70). Shearia had the highest GI (84.0 +/- 1.85) using the glucose scale, and Fatayer Spinach had the lowest GI (77.6 +/- 2.00). There was no significant correlation between the GI of all test foods, using glucose or white bread as standard foods, and the age or the body mass index of the volunteers (P > 0.05). The study provides data on the GIs of carbohydrate-based foods consumed in Qatar and other Arabian Gulf countries that have not been reported before.
20141629	ClpB-cyt/HSP100 protein acts as chaperone, mediating disaggregation of denatured proteins. Previous studies have shown that ClpB-cyt/HSP100 gene belongs to the group class I Clp ATPase proteins and ClpB-cyt/HSP100 transcript is regulated by heat stress and developmental cues. Nine ORFs were noted to constitute rice class I Clp ATPases in the following manner: 3 ClpB proteins (ClpB-cyt, Os05g44340; ClpB-m, Os02g08490; ClpB-c, Os03g31300), 4 ClpC proteins (ClpC1, Os04g32560; ClpC2, Os12g12580; ClpC3, Os11g16590; ClpC4, Os11g16770) and 2 ClpD proteins (ClpD1, Os02g32520; ClpD2, Os04g33210). Using the respective signal sequences cloned upstream to GFP/CFP reporter proteins and transient expression studies with onion epidermal cells, evidence is provided that rice ClpB-m and Clp-c proteins are indeed localized to their respective cell locations mitochondria and chloroplasts, respectively. Associated with their diverse cell locations, domain structures of OsClpB-c, OsClpB-m and OsClpB-cyt proteins are noted to possess a high-level conservation. OsClpB-cyt transcript is shown to be enriched at milk and dough stages of seed development. While expression of OsClpB-m was significantly less as compared to its cytoplasmic and chloroplastic counterparts in different tissues, this transcript showed highest heat-induced expression amongst the 3 ClpB proteins. OsClpC1 and OsClpC2 are predicted to be chloroplast-localized as is the case with all known plant ClpC proteins. However, the fact that OsClpC3 protein appears mitochondrial/chloroplastic with equal probability and OsClpC4 a plasma membrane protein reflects functional diversity of this class. Different class I Clp ATPase transcripts were noted to be cross-induced by a host of different abiotic stress conditions. Complementation assays of Deltahsp104 mutant yeast cells showed that OsClpB-cyt, OsClpB-m, OsClpC1 and OsClpD1 have significantly positive effects. Remarkably, OsClpD1 gene imparted appreciably high level tolerance to the mutant yeast cells. Rice class I Clp ATPase gene family is constituted of 9 members. Of these 9, only 3 belonging to ClpB group are heat stress regulated. Distribution of ClpB proteins to different cell organelles indicates that their functioning might be critical in different cell locations. From the complementation assays, OsClpD1 appears to be more effective than OsClpB-cyt protein in rescuing the thermosensitive defect of the yeast ScDeltahsp104 mutant cells.
20142904	Nephrotic dyslipidemia is a risk factor for the development of systemic atherosclerosis; and may aggravate glomerulosclerosis and enhance progression of glomerular disease. We aimed to assess the efficacy and safety of Monascus purpureus Went rice vs. fluvastatin therapy in the management of nephrotic dyslipidemia. Seventy-two patients with persistent idiopathic nephrotic syndrome (NS) with secondary dyslipidemia were included. They were randomly allocated into three age and sex-matched groups. The first group comprised 20 cases and were given M. purpureus Went rice in a dose of 600 mg twice/day for 1 month then once daily, the second group comprised 30 cases were given fluvastatin in a daily dose of 20 mg. The remaining 22 received no antidyslipidemic therapy and constituted a control group. All of these patients were subjected to thorough laboratory investigations including renal function tests and lipogram. Moreover, the neuromuscular status was evaluated with electromyography and nerve conduction velocity. Our results showed that both fluvstatin and M. purpureus Went rice were well tolerated with no evidence of significant side effects including neuromuscular functions. Both of them significantly reduced cholesterol after 6 months and 1 year. Monascus purpureus Went rice is safe, effective, and economic treatment strategy for nephrotic dyslipidemia.
20143091	The study deals with the pleomorphic zooflagellate Histomonas meleagridis, which was cultivated under different stress conditions to induce a possible encystation. In the present paper, the morphological changes were analyzed by light and electron microscopy. The determination of the proliferation under different adverse conditions led to conclusions on the tenacity of the flagellate. H. meleagridis parasitizes in the intestinal tract of galliform birds and may cause enormous losses in poultry farming. For the development of new therapy approaches, clarification of the transmission pathways will be helpful. Different clonal cultures of H. meleagridis established by micromanipulation and exposed to media lacking different ingredients, inappropriate temperatures, and/or distinct reagents were investigated. Lowering of temperature was proven to have adverse effects on the survival of H. meleagridis. The flagellate could not survive in a frozen medium, and survival in a temperature of 4 degrees C lasted no longer than 23 h. An addition of sodium chloride induced an increased proliferation; pH values between 2 and 8 set limits for the survival of the parasite in different ways. H. meleagridis was able to survive under high acidic conditions for only 1 h. The major amount of cells, which could be discovered in the controls, measured 8-12 microm appeared amoebic (stage 1) and were filled with enclosures of rice starch. A rounding of most cells was noted 4 h at 4 degrees C after incubation in minimal essential medium in the absence of rice starch and fetal calf serum. A higher osmolarity of the medium, which was initiated by the addition of sodium chloride or magnesium chloride, did not induce an encystation process. After addition of hypochlorite base and cultivating at pH values between 7 and 8, spherical stages without a flagellum were formed (stage 2) measuring about 8-12 microm in diameter. Their interior consisted of a central and a peripheral region when studied by transmission electron microscopy. This aspect was due to the location of the glycogen granules. The central zone was described as totally filled with the carbohydrates, which made totally invisible the other organelles. The solidity of the amorphous layer below the cell membrane seemed to hinder the invasion of the glycogen granules. The amorphous layer below the cell membrane made it apparently possible that the cell might survive under adverse conditions-at least for a short time. This special structure might enable H. meleagridis to proceed a fast transmission and to infect many birds in a rather short time, which was shown in the past by several studies. Double-membraned cells, which were guessed to be cyst-like structures of the parasite, were also detected (stage 3). The size of these cells, however, was much smaller than that of the amoebic stages or the above-described spherical forms of H. meleagridis. Furthermore, the small cells were characterized by other granula structures. These findings might be interpreted that the small stages are possibly long-term (true) cysts and that the spherical stages with the amorphous layer beneath the cell membrane might be short-term cysts. Both, however, should be able to survive situations outside of a body and thus might be transmitted from feces to another animal.
20143773	The influence of variety, location, growing year, and storage on the total phosphorus (total P), phytate-P, and phytate-P to total P ratio in Korean rice varieties was investigated. Experiment 1 investigated the influence of 9 rice varieties, 4 locations, and 2 growing years. In experiment 2, the effect of storage for 1, 6, and 12 months was examined. Results showed that locations, varieties, and their interactions had a significant effect on the total P and phytate-P contents in rice, whereas growing year did not. Location had a higher effect than variety. Rice grown at locations with higher precipitation levels and higher temperatures obtained lower total P, phytate-P, and phytate-P to total P ratio. Effect of variety and location showed the possibility of reducing phytate-P in rice. Storage of rice for up to 12 months did not affect the total P and phytate-P concentrations of rice.
20143824	The study evaluated the protective effect of anthocyanin-rich extract from black rice (AEBR) on chronic ethanol-induced biochemical changes in male Wistar rats. Administration of ethanol (3.7 g/kg/day) to Wistar rats for 45 days induced liver damage with a significant increase (P < 0.05) of aspartate transaminase (AST), alanine transaminase (ALT), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT) in the serum and the hepatic malondialdehyde (MDA) level. In contrast, administration of AEBR (500 mg/kg) along with alcohol significantly (P < 0.01) decreased the activities of liver enzymes (AST, ALT and GGT) in serum, the MDA levels and the concentrations of serum and hepatic triglyceride (TG) and total cholesterol (TCH). Rats treated with AEBR showed a better profile of the antioxidant system with normal glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) activities. All these results were accompanied by histological observations in liver. The results demonstrate that AEBR has a beneficial effect in reducing the adverse effect of alcohol.
20144143	In magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the knee joint, when imaging the knee in a flexed position using the chemical-shift-selective (CHESS) method, lingering fat signals in the popliteal region are sometimes seen. To investigate whether a pad filled with rice (rice pad) placed in the popliteal space is effective in eliminating the lingering fat signals in MR images of the flexed knee, based on the hypothesis that the use of a rice pad would improve the fat suppression effect. Subjects were 10 healthy volunteers (five males, five females; age, 20-45 years) from whom images were taken using CHESS. Images were obtained with: 1) the knee extended and nothing placed underneath; 2) the knee bent with a sponge placed underneath; and 3) the knee bent with a rice pad placed underneath. The effectiveness of suppressing fat signals was visually assessed by one radiologist and one radiological technologist. The fat suppression effect in images obtained with the knee extended was good. In contrast, the images made with a sponge under the knee had conspicuous lingering fat signals for nearly all subjects. In the images made with a rice pad under the knee, a uniformly good fat signal suppression effect was seen in all patients, and the assessment score was far higher than that with the sponge pillow (P<0.001). Lingering fat signals were suppressed with the use of a rice pad, and fat-suppressed images of the knee joint using CHESS were found to be improved.
20144872	Cadmium (Cd) toxicity of rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Taichung Native 1) seedlings was evaluated by the decrease in chlorophyll content and the increase in malondialdehyde (MDA) in the second leaves of rice seedlings. CdCl2 (5 microM) treatment was accompanied by a decrease in the contents of ascorbic acid (AsA) and AsA + dehydroascorbate (DHA) and in the ratios of AsA/DHA in leaves. However, CdCl2 treatment resulted in an increase in DHA content in leaves. Moreover, the decrease in AsA content was prior to the occurrence of chlorosis and associated with the increase in MDA content in the leaves of seedlings treated with Cd. Pretreatment with 0.5 mM AsA or L-galactono-1,4-lactone (GalL), the biosynthetic precursor of AsA, for 6 h resulted in an increase in the contents of AsA and reduced glutathione (GSH), the ratios of AsA/DHA and GSH/oxidized glutathione, and the activities of ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and glutathione reductase (GR) in the leaves of rice seedlings. Quantitative RT-PCR was applied to quantify the mRNA levels for OsAPX and OsGR genes from rice leaves to examine the effect of AsA or GalL pretreatment on the expression of OsAPX and OsGR genes in rice leaves. The expression of OsAPX2, OsAPX3, OsAPX4, OsAPX5, OsAPX6, OsAPX7, and OsGR1 was increased by AsA or GalL pretreatment. Rice seedlings pretreated with AsA or GalL were observed to reduce the subsequent Cd-induced toxicity. Our results suggest that AsA content may play a role in regulating Cd toxicity of rice seedlings.
20146797	Infection of plants by pathogens and the subsequent disease development involves substantial changes in the biochemistry and physiology of both partners. Analysis of genes that are expressed during these interactions represents a powerful strategy to obtain insights into the molecular events underlying these changes. We have employed expressed sequence tag (EST) analysis to identify rice genes involved in defense responses against infection by the blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae and fungal genes involved in infectious growth within the host during a compatible interaction. A cDNA library was constructed with RNA from rice leaves (Oryza sativa cv. Hwacheong) infected with M. oryzae strain KJ201. To enrich for fungal genes, subtraction library using PCR-based suppression subtractive hybridization was constructed with RNA from infected rice leaves as a tester and that from uninfected rice leaves as the driver. A total of 4,148 clones from two libraries were sequenced to generate 2,302 non-redundant ESTs. Of these, 712 and 1,562 ESTs could be identified to encode fungal and rice genes, respectively. To predict gene function, Gene Ontology (GO) analysis was applied, with 31% and 32% of rice and fungal ESTs being assigned to GO terms, respectively. One hundred uniESTs were found to be specific to fungal infection EST. More than 80 full-length fungal cDNA sequences were used to validate ab initio annotated gene model of M. oryzae genome sequence. This study shows the power of ESTs to refine genome annotation and functional characterization. Results of this work have advanced our understanding of the molecular mechanisms underpinning fungal-plant interactions and formed the basis for new hypothesis.
20146859	Morphological deformities in parts of the head capsule of Chironomus spp. larvae inhabiting three polluted rivers (Permatang Rawa [PRR], Pasir [PR], and Kilang Ubi [KUR]) in the Juru River Basin, northeastern peninsular Malaysia, were studied. Samples of the fourth-instar larvae at one location in each river were collected monthly from November 2007 to March 2008 and examined for deformities of the mentum, antenna, mandible, and epipharyngis. At each sample location, in situ measurements of water depth, river width, water pH, dissolved oxygen, and water temperature were made. Samples of river water and benthic sediments were also collected monthly from each larval sample location in each river and taken to the laboratory for appropriate analysis. Total suspended solids (TSSs), ammonium-N, nitrate-N, phosphate-P, chloride, sulfate, and aluminum content in water were analyzed. Total organic matter and nonresidual metals in the sediment samples were also analyzed. Among the three rivers, the highest mean deformity (47.17%) was recorded in larvae collected from KUR that received industrial discharges from surrounding garment and rubber factories, followed by PRR (33.71%) receiving primarily residues of fertilizers and pesticides from adjacent rice fields, and PR (30.34%) contaminated primarily by anthropogenic wastes from the surrounding residential areas. Among the various head capsule structures, deformity of the mentum was strongly reflective of environmental stress and amounted to 27.9, 20.87, and 30.19% in the PRR, PR, and KUR, respectively. Calculated Lenat's toxic score index satisfactorily explained the influence of prevailing environmental variables on the severity of mentum deformities. Redundancy analysis and forward selection selected TSSs, sediment Zn, Mn, Cu, and Ni, and water pH, dissolved oxygen, water temperature, total organic matter, nitrate-N, chloride, phosphate-P, ammonium-N, sulfate, and aluminum as parameters that significantly affected some proportion of deformities. The total deformities correlated closely with deformities of mentum but only weakly with deformities in other parts of head. The total deformity incidence was strongly correlated with high contents of sediment Mn and Ni. The mentum and epipharyngis deformities incidence was highly correlated with an increase of TSSs, total aluminum, and ammonium-N and a decrease in pH and dissolved oxygen.
20146862	During 2005-2008, field studies were conducted at two locations in Chongqing, China, to assess the potential effects of transgenic rice expressing Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) Cry1Ab protein on the nontarget ground-dwelling collembolan community in three postharvest seasons. Collembolans in non-Bt and Bt rice fields were sampled with pitfall traps during each of two postharvest seasons of 2005/2006 and 2006/2007 and litterbag traps during each of three postharvest seasons of 2005/2006, 2006/2007, and 2007/2008. Ground-dwelling collembolans in rice fields during the postharvest seasons were abundant, whereas community densities varied considerably between the two locations and among the three seasons. A total of 67,310 collembolans, representing three species, Entomobrya griseoolivata, Hypogastrura matura, and Bourletiella christianseni, were captured during the three postharvest seasons. E. griseoolivata was the predominant species, accounting for 87.7% of the total captures, followed by H. matura (10.7%) and B. christianseni (1.6%). In general, there were no significant differences in species compositions and abundances of each species between Bt and non-Bt paddy fields, suggesting no significantly impact of plant residues of Cry1Ab rice on collembolan communities during postharvest seasons.
20147033	Zea mays ssp. mays is one of the world's most important crop plants, boasting a multibillion dollar annual revenue. In addition to its agronomic importance, maize has been a keystone model organism for basic research for nearly a century. Within the cereals, which include other plant model species such as rice (Oryza sativa), sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), wheat (Triticum spp.), and barley (Hordeum vulgare), maize is the most thoroughly researched genetic system. Several attributes of the maize plant, including a vast collection of mutant stocks, large heterochromatic chromosomes, extensive nucleotide diversity, and genic colinearity within related grasses, have positioned this species as a centerpiece for genetic, cytogenetic, and genomic research. As a model organism, maize is the subject of such far-ranging biological investigations as plant domestication, genome evolution, developmental physiology, epigenetics, pest resistance, heterosis, quantitative inheritance, and comparative genomics. These and other studies will be advanced by the completed sequencing and annotation of the maize gene space, which will be realized during 2009. Here we present an overview of the use of maize as a model system and provide links to several protocols that enable its genetic and genomic analysis.
20148030	Three subfamilies of grasses, the Ehrhartoideae, Panicoideae and Pooideae, provide the bulk of human nutrition and are poised to become major sources of renewable energy. Here we describe the genome sequence of the wild grass Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium), which is, to our knowledge, the first member of the Pooideae subfamily to be sequenced. Comparison of the Brachypodium, rice and sorghum genomes shows a precise history of genome evolution across a broad diversity of the grasses, and establishes a template for analysis of the large genomes of economically important pooid grasses such as wheat. The high-quality genome sequence, coupled with ease of cultivation and transformation, small size and rapid life cycle, will help Brachypodium reach its potential as an important model system for developing new energy and food crops.
20148066	We analyzed inheritance of DNA methylation in reciprocal F(1) hybrids (subsp. japonica cv. Nipponbare x subsp. indica cv. Kasalath) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) using restriction landmark genome scanning (RLGS), and detected differing RLGS spots between the parents and reciprocal F(1) hybrids. MspI/HpaII restriction sites in the DNA from these different spots were suspected to be heterozygously methylated in the Nipponbare parent. These spots segregated in F(1) plants, but did not segregate in selfed progeny of Nipponbare, showing non-Mendelian inheritance of the methylation status. As a result of RT-PCR and sequencing, a specific allele of the gene nearest to the methylated sites was expressed in reciprocal F(1) plants, showing evidence of biased allelic expression. These results show the applicability of RLGS for scanning of non-Mendelian inheritance of DNA methylation and biased allelic expression.
20148486
20149114	Allopolyploidy results from two events: the merger of divergent genomes and genome duplication. Both events have important functional consequences for the evolution and adaptation of newly formed allopolyploid species. In spite of the significant progress made in recent years, few studies have decoupled the effects of hybridization from genome duplication in the observed patterns of expression changes accompanying allopolyploidy in natural conditions. We used Agilent rice oligomicroarrays to explore gene expression changes following allopolyploidy in Spartina that includes a classic example of recent allopolyploid speciation: S. anglica formed during the 19th century following genome duplication of the hybrid S. x townsendii. Our data indicate important, but different, effects of hybridization and genome duplication in the expression patterns of the hybrid and allopolyploid. Deviation from parental additivity was most important following hybridization and was accompanied by maternal expression dominance, although transgressively expressed genes were also encountered. Maternal dominance was attenuated following genome duplication in S. anglica, but this species exhibits an increased number of transgressively overexpressed genes. These results reflect the decoupled effects of the 'genomic shock' following hybridization and genome redundancy on the genetic, epigenetic and regulatory mechanisms characterizing transcriptomic evolution in allopolyploids.
20149131	Phosphate (Pi) homeostasis in plants is required for plant growth and development, and is achieved by the coordination of Pi acquisition, translocation from roots to shoots, and remobilization within plants. Previous reports have demonstrated that over-expression of OsPHR2 (the homolog of AtPHR1) and knockdown of OsSPX1 result in accumulation of excessive shoot Pi in rice. Here we report that OsPHR2 positively regulates the low-affinity Pi transporter gene OsPT2 by physical interaction and upstream regulation of OsPHO2 in roots. OsPT2 is responsible for most of the OsPHR2-mediated accumulation of excess shoot Pi. OsSPX1 suppresses the regulation on expression of OsPT2 by OsPHR2 and the accumulation of excess shoot Pi, but it does not suppress induction of OsPT2 or the accumulation of excessive shoot Pi in the Ospho2 mutant. Our data also show that OsSPX1 is a negative regulator of OsPHR2 and is involved in the feedback of Pi-signaling network in roots that is defined by OsPHR2 and OsPHO2. This finding provides new insight into the regulatory mechanism of Pi uptake, translocation, allocation and homeostasis in plants.
20149347	Plants use UDP-arabinofuranose (UDP-Araf) to donate Araf residues in the biosynthesis of Araf-containing complex carbohydrates. UDP-Araf itself is formed from UDP-arabinopyranose (UDP-Arap) by UDP-arabinopyranose mutase (UAM). However, the mechanism by which this enzyme catalyzes the interconversion of UDP-Arap and UDP-Araf has not been determined. To gain insight into this reaction, functionally recombinant rUAMs were reacted with UDP-Glc or UDP-Araf. The glycosylated recombinant UAMs were fragmented with trypsin, and the glycopeptides formed were then identified and sequenced by LC-MS/MS. The results of these experiments, together with site-directed mutagenesis studies, suggest that in functional UAMs an arginyl residue is reversibly glycosylated with a single glycosyl residue, and that this residue is required for mutase activity. We also provide evidence that a DXD motif is required for catalytic activity.
20149477	Phenylalanine ammonia lyase (PAL)-specific activity levels were measured in suspension-cultured cells of six rice cultivars following treatment with cell wall hydrolysates prepared from seven Pyricularia grisea strains. Early after elicitation, even low hydrolysate concentrations were able to induce a significant increase in enzyme levels. However, neither rice genotypes showing differential sensitivity to blast reacted differently, nor did elicitors obtained from various pathotypes induce different reactions. At a later stage, higher hydrolysate concentrations were required to trigger maximal enzyme induction. Also in this case, only slight variations were detected in suspension cultures of a given cultivar treated with different elicitors. On the contrary, highly significant differences were observed among plant genotypes. A clear relationship was evident between the mean increase in PAL activity and the overall resistance to blast at the plant level. This trait could therefore represent a useful tool in selection for increased blast tolerance.
20150424	Serotonin is a well known neurotransmitter in mammals and plays an important role in various mental functions in humans. In plants, the serotonin biosynthesis pathway and its function are not well understood. The rice sekiguchi lesion (sl) mutants accumulate tryptamine, a candidate substrate for serotonin biosynthesis. We isolated the SL gene by map-based cloning and found that it encodes CYP71P1 in a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase family. A recombinant SL protein exhibited tryptamine 5-hydroxylase enzyme activity and catalyzed the conversion of tryptamine to serotonin. This pathway is novel and has not been reported in mammals. Expression of SL was induced by the N-acetylchitooligosaccharide (chitin) elicitor and by infection with Magnaporthe grisea, a causal agent for rice blast disease. Exogenously applied serotonin induced defense gene expression and cell death in rice suspension cultures and increased resistance to rice blast infection in plants. We also found that serotonin-induced defense gene expression is mediated by the RacGTPase pathway and by the G alpha subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein. These results suggest that serotonin plays an important role in rice innate immunity.
20150490	Farmers in mixed crop-livestock systems produce about half of the world's food. In small holdings around the world, livestock are reared mostly on grass, browse, and nonfood biomass from maize, millet, rice, and sorghum crops and in their turn supply manure and traction for future crops. Animals act as insurance against hard times and supply farmers with a source of regular income from sales of milk, eggs, and other products. Thus, faced with population growth and climate change, small-holder farmers should be the first target for policies to intensify production by carefully managed inputs of fertilizer, water, and feed to minimize waste and environmental impact, supported by improved access to markets, new varieties, and technologies.
20151182	Feeding by herbivores can change plants in ways that make them more resistant to subsequent herbivory. Such induced responses are better-studied in a number of model dicots than in rice and other cereals. In a series of greenhouse and field experiments, we assessed the effects of prior herbivory by the fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda (J.E. Smith) and of exogenous applications of jasmonic acid (JA) on the resistance of rice plants to the rice water weevil, Lissorhoptrus oryzophilus (Kuschel), the major pest of rice in the United States. Prior feeding by S. frugiperda and treatment of plants with exogenous JA resulted in increases in the resistance of plants to the weevil. Increases in resistance were manifested as reduced numbers of eggs and first-instars associated with armyworm-injured or JA-treated plants relative to control plants. In field experiments, there was a transient but significant reduction in the number of immature L. oryzophilus on JA-treated plants relative to untreated plants. To our knowledge, this is the first example of direct induced resistance in rice demonstrated in small-plot field experiments. We discuss the potential for the use of elicitor induced resistance in rice.
20151737	The low-lying triplet and singlet potential energy surfaces of the O((3)P)+CH(3)CN reaction have been studied at the G3(MP2)//B3LYP/6-311+G(d,p) level. On the triplet surface, six kinds of pathways are revealed, namely, direct hydrogen abstraction, C-addition/elimination, N-addition/elimination, substitution, insertion, and H-migration. Multichannel Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory and transition-state theory are employed to calculate the overall and individual rate constants over a wide range of temperatures and pressures. It is predicted that the direct hydrogen abstraction and C-addition/elimination on triplet potential energy surface are dominant pathways. Major predicted end products include CH(3)+NCO and CH(2)CN+OH. At atmospheric pressure with Ar and N(2) as bath gases, CH(3)C(O)N (IM1) formed by collisional stabilization is dominated at T<700 K, whereas CH(3) and NCO produced by C-addition/elimination pathway are the major products at the temperatures between 800 and 1500 K; the direct hydrogen abstraction leading to CH(2)CN+OH plays an important role at higher temperatures in hydrocarbon combustion chemistry and flames, with estimated contribution of 64% at 2000 K. Furthermore, the calculated rate constants are in good agreement with available experimental data over the temperature range 300-600 K. The kinetic isotope effect has also been calculated for the triplet O((3)P)+CH(3)CN reaction. On the singlet surface, the atomic oxygen can easily insert into C-H or C-C bonds of CH(3)CN, forming the insertion intermediates s-IM8(HOCH(2)CN) and s-IM5(CH(3)OCN) or add to the carbon atom of CN group in CH(3)CN, forming the addition intermediate s-IM1(CH(3)C(O)N); both approaches were found to be barrierless. It is indicated that the singlet reaction exhibits a marked difference from the triplet reaction. This calculation is useful to simulate experimental investigations of the O((3)P)+CH(3)CN reaction in the singlet state surface.
20151744	Although never spectroscopically identified in the laboratory, hydrogenated nitrogen (HN(2)) is thought to be an important species in combustion chemistry. The classical barrier height (10.6+/-0.2 kcal mol(-1)) and exothermicity (3.6+/-0.2 kcal mol(-1)) for the HN(2)-->N(2)+H reaction are predicted by high level ab initio quantum mechanical methods [up to CCSDT(Q)]. Total energies are extrapolated to the complete basis set limit applying the focal point analysis. Zero-point vibrational energies are computed using fundamental (anharmonic) frequencies obtained from a quartic force field. Relativistic and diagonal Born-Oppenheimer corrections are also taken into account. The quantum mechanical barrier with these corrections is predicted to be 6.4+/-0.2 kcal mol(-1) and the reaction exothermicity to be 8.8+/-0.2 kcal mol(-1). The importance of these parameters for the thermal NO(x) decomposition (De-NO(x)) process is discussed. The unimolecular rate constant for dissociation of the HN(2) molecule and its lifetime are estimated by canonical transition-state theory and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus theory. The lifetime of the HN(2) molecule is here estimated to be 2.8x10(-10) s at room temperature. Our result is in marginal agreement with the latest experimental kinetic modeling studies (tau=1.5x10(-8) s), albeit consistent with the very rough experimental upper limit (tau<0.5 mus). For the dissociation reaction, kinetic isotope effects are investigated. Our analysis demonstrates that the DN(2) molecule has a longer lifetime than the HN(2) molecule. Thus, DN(2) might be more readily identified experimentally. The ionization potential of the HN(2) molecule is determined by analogous high level ab initio methods and focal point analysis. The adiabatic IP of HN(2) is predicted to be 8.19+/-0.05 eV, in only fair agreement with the experimental upper limit of 7.92 eV deduced from sychrothon-radiation-based photoionization mass spectrometry.
20153067	Four strains of the Bacillus cereus group were compared for their germinant receptor composition and spore germination capacity. Phylogenetic analysis of the germinant receptor encoding operons of the enterotoxic strains B. cereus ATCC 14579 and ATCC 10987, the emetic strain AH187, and the psychrotolerant strain Bacillus weihenstephanensis KBAB4, indicated a core group of five germinant receptor operons to be present in the four strains, with each strain containing one to three additional receptors. Using quantitative PCR, induction of expression during sporulation was confirmed for all identified germinant receptor operons in these strains. Despite the large overlap in receptors, diversity in amino acid-induced germination capacity was observed, with six out of 20 amino acids, serving as germinants for spores of all four strains. Each strain showed unique features: efficient germination of strain KBAB4 spores required non-inducing amounts of inosine as the co-germinant, strain ATCC 10987 spores germinated only efficiently after heat activation. Furthermore, strain ATCC 14579 and AH187 spores germinated without heat activation or inosine, with strain ATCC 14579 spores being triggered by all amino acids except phenylalanine and strain AH187 spores being specifically triggered efficiently only by phenylalanine. Analysis of all germination data did not reveal strict linkages between specific germinants and germinant receptors. Finally, the diversity in nutrient-induced germination capacity was also reflected in the diverse germination responses of heat-activated spores of the four B. cereus strains in food matrices, such as milk, rice water and meat bouillon, indicating that amino acid composition and/or availability of inosine are important germination determinants in foods.
20153154	The prevention of cardiovascular risk, as occurs in lipoprotein disorders, is required since childhood. Aim of the study was to evaluate, in a group of children affected by primary dyslipidemia, the efficacy, tolerability and safety of a short-term treatment with a dietary supplement containing red yeast rice extract and policosanols. 40 children affected by heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (FH) (n=24) and Familial Combined Hyperlipidemia (FCH) (n=16), aged 8-16 years, were enrolled in a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over trial. After a 4-week run-in period with only dietary advice, children received a dietary supplement containing 200mg red yeast rice extract, corresponding to 3mg of monacolins, and 10mg policosanols once-daily and placebo for 8 weeks, separated by a 4-week washout period. Lipid profile was assessed after each treatment period. The dietary supplement, compared with the placebo, significantly reduced total cholesterol by 18.5% (p<0.001), LDL-C levels by 25.1% (p<0.001), and apolipoprotein B by 25.3% (p<0.001) when patients were considered as a whole group. Similar results were obtained when FH and FCH were considered separately and no significant difference between groups was detected. No significant differences were observed in HDL-C and apolipoprotein A-I levels. No adverse effects were detected when liver and muscular enzymes (AST, ALT, and CK) were determined. The treatment with a dietary supplement containing red yeast rice extract and policosanols has been for the first time successfully employed in hypercholesterolemic children. Results indicate this strategy as an effective, safe and well tolerated in a short-term trial.
20153179	Rice straw particles were directly used as substrate for anaerobic digestion with acclimated sludge under room temperature and different levels of phosphate. Two obvious biogas production peaks were observed for all reactors, with biogas or methane yields of (0.33-0.35)m(3)/kg-VS loaded or (0.27-0.29)m(3) CH(4)/kg-VS loaded and average methane contents of 75.9-78.2%. A separated two-stage first-order kinetic model was developed in this study and showed a good fit to the experimental data when this complicated process was divided into two stages. The average biogas and methane production rate constants were (0.027-0.031)d(-1) and (0.028-0.033)d(-1), respectively, increased by 2-3 times in the second stages than those in the first. The results indicated that an adequate level of phosphate addition (465 mg-P/L) could accelerate the biogasification process: 7-13 days earlier appearance of the two peaks and shorter time needed for complete biogasification of rice straw.
20153181	The objective is to evaluate the primary mechanical and physical properties of particleboard made from hammer-milled rice straw particles of six different categories and two types of resins. The results show the performance of straw particleboards is highly dependent upon the straw particle size controlled by the opening size of the perforated plate inside the hammer-mill. The static bending and internal bonding strength of polymeric diphenylmethane diisocyanate (pMDI) resin-bonded boards initially increase then decrease with decreased particle size. The thickness swelling, water absorption, and linear expansion of particleboards decrease with increasing particle size. Compared with pMDI resin-bonded panels, the rice straw particleboard bonded using urea-formaldehyde resin exhibits much poorer performance. The optimized panel properties, obtained when using 4% pMDI and straw particles hammer milled with a 3.18 mm opening perforated plate, exceeded the M-2 specification of American National Standard for Wood Particleboard.
20153244	Hybrid sterility is the most common form of postzygotic reproductive isolation in plants. The best-known example is perhaps the hybrid sterility between indica and japonica subspecies of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). Major progress has been reported recently in rice in identifying and cloning hybrid sterility genes at two loci regulating female and male fertility, respectively. Genetic analyses and molecular characterization of these genes, together with the results from other model organisms especially Drosophila, have advanced the understanding of the processes underlying reproductive isolation and speciation. These findings also have significant implications for crop genetic improvement, by providing the feasibility and strategies for overcoming intersubspecific hybrid sterility thus allowing the development of intersubspecific hybrids.
20153971	Cereals possess a fibrous root system that is mainly composed of crown roots that emerge postembryonically from the nodes of the stem. Because the root system is not directly accessible and consequently difficult to study, it remains a target for breeders to improve the ability of plants to exploit the mineral and water resources of the soil. Breeding for root architecture necessitates identifying the genetic determinants of root development. This research is now underway in cereals, particularly in rice, the monocot model species. In this review, we examine recent data identifying genes that govern root development in cereals, such as ARL1/CRL1 in rice and RTCS in maize which encodes a conserved lateral organ boundary domain transcription factor involved in crown root initiation and development in response to auxin. Finally, we discuss the detection and validation of root development quantitative trait loci.
20154096	The chloroplastic NAD kinase (NADK2) is reported to stimulate carbon and nitrogen assimilation in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), which is vulnerable to high light. Since rice (Oryza sativa) is a monocotyledonous plant that can adapt to high light, we studied the effects of NADK2 expression in rice by developing transgenic rice plants that constitutively expressed the Arabidopsis chloroplastic NADK gene (NK2 lines). NK2 lines showed enhanced activity of NADK and accumulation of the NADP(H) pool, while intermediates of NAD derivatives were unchanged. Comprehensive analysis of the primary metabolites in leaves using capillary electrophoresis mass spectrometry revealed elevated levels of amino acids and several sugar phosphates including ribose-1,5-bisphosphate, but no significant change in the levels of the other metabolites. Studies of chlorophyll fluorescence and gas change analyses demonstrated greater electron transport and CO2 assimilation rates in NK2 lines, compared to those in the control. Analysis of oxidative stress response indicated enhanced tolerance to oxidative stress in these transformants. The results suggest that NADP content plays a critical role in determining the photosynthetic electron transport rate in rice and that its enhancement leads to stimulation of photosynthesis metabolism and tolerance of oxidative damages.
20154151	ZEP1, a transverse filament (TF) protein, is the rice (Oryza sativa) homolog of Arabidopsis thaliana ZYP1. In the Tos17-insertional zep1 mutants, homologous chromosomes align along the entire length of the chromosome, but the synaptonemal complex is not assembled in early prophase I. Crossovers are well formed, and 12 bivalents could be detected from diakinesis to metaphase I, which leads to equal chromosomal segregation in anaphase I. Moreover, the number of crossovers has a tendency to be increased compared with that in the wild type. These phenomena are different from the TF mutants identified so far in other organisms. Chiasma terminalization of the bivalent, which occurs frequently in the wild type, seldom occurred in zep1. Transmission electron micrographs and immunodetection using an antibody against ZEP1 showed that ZEP1 is the central element of the synaptonemal complex. Although PAIR2 and MER3 were loaded normally in zep1, their dissociation was delayed severely compared with the wild type. In addition, ZEP1 is reloaded onto chromosomes in early microspores as the chromosome decondense, suggesting that ZEP1 might have other biological functions during this process.
20154423	In order to analyze mutations induced by gamma irradiation in higher plants, we irradiated rice with gamma rays and screened for mutations expressing phenotypes of glutinous endosperm (wx), chlorophyll b deficiency, endosperm protein deficiency, gibberellin-related dwarfism, and shortened plastochron-in order to clarify types of mutations. Nucleotide sequence analysis showed that the most frequent mutation induced by gamma rays was deletion, particularly small deletion. Of the 24 mutations, 15 were small deletions (1-16 bp), four were large deletions (9.4-129.7 kbp), three were single-base substitutions, and two were inversions. Deletions 100 bp-8 kbp in length were not found, suggesting that gamma irradiation is unlikely to induce deletions of 100 bp to 8 kbp but is more likely to induce deletions between 1 and several ten bp or those of around 10 kbp or more. Based on the results, reverse genetics applications may be possible for gamma irradiation-induced deletions in rice by mismatch cleavage analysis used in Targeting Induced Local Lesions IN Genomes (TILLING) to detect small deletions and base substitutions or by using array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH) to detect large deletions.
20154468	Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) is an effective method for the physical mapping of genes and repetitive DNA sequences on chromosomes. Physical mapping of unique nucleotide sequences on specific rice chromosome regions was performed using a combination of chromosome identification and highly sensitive FISH. Increases in the detection sensitivity of smaller DNA sequences and improvements in spatial resolution have ushered in a new phase in FISH technology. Thus, it is now possible to perform in situ hybridization on somatic chromosomes, pachytene chromosomes, and even on extended DNA fibers (EDFs). Pachytene-FISH allows the integration of genetic linkage maps and quantitative chromosome maps. Visualization methods using FISH can reveal the spatial organization of the centromere, heterochromatin/euchromatin, and the terminal structures of rice chromosomes. Furthermore, EDF-FISH and the DNA combing technique can resolve a spatial distance of 1 kb between adjacent DNA sequences, and the detection of even a 300-bp target is now feasible. The copy numbers of various repetitive sequences and the sizes of various DNA molecules were quantitatively measured using the molecular combing technique. This review describes the significance of these advances in molecular cytology in rice and discusses future applications in plant studies using visualization techniques.
20154921	The residual surface roughness of diamond-turned optics is expected to contain significant periodic components. The optical properties of such surfaces are explored as a special case of Rayleigh-Rice vector scattering theory applied to periodic roughness with vertical amplitudes much smaller than the wavelength of light. Expressions are given for the interpretation of differential-scatter, total-integrated-scatter, reflectometry, and ellipsometric measurements in the limit of a highly conducting. surface. In general, such measurements give varying degrees of information about the two-dimensional power spectral density of the surface roughness within the nominal range from the wavelength of light to the diameter of the probing beam spot. Such information may be useful for the practical characterization of mirror surfaces.
20155303	Leaf morphology is an important agronomic trait in rice breeding. We isolated three allelic mutants of NARROW AND ROLLED LEAF 1 (nrl1) which showed phenotypes of reduced leaf width and semi-rolled leaves and different degrees of dwarfism. Microscopic analysis indicated that the nrl1-1 mutant had fewer longitudinal veins and smaller adaxial bulliform cells compared with the wild-type. The NRL1 gene was mapped to the chromosome 12 and encodes the cellulose synthase-like protein D4 (OsCslD4). Sequence analyses revealed single base substitutions in the three allelic mutants. Genetic complementation and over-expression of the OsCslD4 gene confirmed the identity of NRL1. The gene was expressed in all tested organs of rice at the heading stage and expression level was higher in vigorously growing organs, such as roots, sheaths and panicles than in elsewhere. In the mutant leaves, however, the expression level was lower than that in the wild-type. We conclude that OsCslD4 encoded by NRL1 plays a critical role in leaf morphogenesis and vegetative development in rice.
20155410	Sugarcane mosaic virus (SCMV) is an important virus pathogen both in European and Chinese maize production, causing serious losses in grain and forage yield in susceptible cultivars. Two major resistance loci confer resistance to SCMV, one located on chromosome 3 (Scmv2) and one on chromosome 6 (Scmv1). We developed a large isogenic mapping population segregating in the Scmv2, but not the Scmv1 region, to minimize genetic variation potentially affecting expression of SCMV resistance. We fine mapped Scmv2 to a region of 0.28 cM, covering a physical distance of 1.3426 Mb, and developed six new polymorphic SSR markers based on publicly available BAC sequences within this region. At present, we still have three recombinants left between Scmv2 and the nearest polymorphic marker on either side of the Scmv2 locus. The region showed synteny to a 1.6 Mb long sequence on chromosome 12 in rice. Analysis of the public B73 BAC library as well as the syntenic rice region did not reveal any similarity to known resistance genes. However, four new candidate genes with a possible involvement in movement of virus were detected.
20156487	Neonatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is an important cause of neurological deficits. The Levine-Rice model of unilateral HI is a useful experimental tool, but the resulting brain damage is mainly restricted to one hemisphere. Since the rat presents morphological and biochemical asymmetries between brain hemispheres, behavioral outcome from this model is probably dependent on which hemisphere is damaged. We here investigated the effects of sex and lesioned hemisphere on the outcome of open field, plus maze, inhibitory avoidance and water maze tasks in adult rats previously submitted to neonatal unilateral HI. Females were more active than males in some of studied parameters and males presented better spatial learning. Hypoxia-ischemia caused spatial deficits independently of sex or damaged hemisphere. Right-HI increased locomotion only in males and caused working memory in females and on aversive learning in both males and females. Morphological analysis showed that right-HI animals presented greater reduction of ipsilateral striatum area, with females being more affected. Interestingly, males showed greater hippocampal volume. These results show that task performance and cerebral damage extension are lateralized and sex-dependent, and that the right hemisphere, irrespective of sex, is more vulnerable to neonatal cerebral hypoxia-ischemia.
20156691	We investigated the effect of methyl jasmonate (MeJa) treatment on the expression of two genes in the rice polyamine biosynthesis pathway and on the polyamine content in wild type plants and transgenic rice plants expressing a Datura stramonium (Ds) Adc cDNA, the latter accumulating up to three-fold the normal level of putrescine. Exogenous MeJa transiently inhibited the expression of OsAdc1, OsSamdc and Spermidine synthase (OsSpds) genes in the polyamine biosynthesis pathway, probably through transcriptional repression. There was also a similar negative impact on the DsAdc transgene in transgenic plants, even though a constitutive promoter was used to drive transgene expression. The free putrescine content was reduced significantly in the leaves of both wild type and transgenic plants in response to MeJa, although the magnitude of the effect was greater in wild type plants. We discuss our findings with respect to the previously proposed threshold model of polyamine metabolism in plants subjected to abiotic stress.
20157478	Gramene is a comparative information resource for plants that integrates data across diverse data domains. In this article, we describe the development of a quantitative trait loci (QTL) database and illustrate how it can be used to facilitate both the forward and reverse genetics research. The QTL database contains the largest online collection of rice QTL data in the world. Using flanking markers as anchors, QTLs originally reported on individual genetic maps have been systematically aligned to the rice sequence where they can be searched as standard genomic features. Researchers can determine whether a QTL co-localizes with other QTLs detected in independent experiments and can combine data from multiple studies to improve the resolution of a QTL position. Candidate genes falling within a QTL interval can be identified and their relationship to particular phenotypes can be inferred based on functional annotations provided by ontology terms. Mutations identified in functional genomics populations and association mapping panels can be aligned with QTL regions to facilitate fine mapping and validation of gene-phenotype associations. By assembling and integrating diverse types of data and information across species and levels of biological complexity, the QTL database enhances the potential to understand and utilize QTL information in biological research.
20157482	As ecosystem engineers, seagrasses are angiosperms of paramount ecological importance in shallow shoreline habitats around the globe. Furthermore, the ancestors of independent seagrass lineages have secondarily returned into the sea in separate, independent evolutionary events. Thus, understanding the molecular adaptation of this clade not only makes significant contributions to the field of ecology, but also to principles of parallel evolution as well. With the use of Dr. Zompo, the first interactive seagrass sequence database presented here, new insights into the molecular adaptation of marine environments can be inferred. The database is based on a total of 14 597 ESTs obtained from two seagrass species, Zostera marina and Posidonia oceanica, which have been processed, assembled and comprehensively annotated. Dr. Zompo provides experimentalists with a broad foundation to build experiments and consider challenges associated with the investigation of this class of non-domesticated monocotyledon systems. Our database, based on the Ruby on Rails framework, is rich in features including the retrieval of experimentally determined heat-responsive transcripts, mining for molecular markers (SSRs and SNPs), and weighted key word searches that allow access to annotation gathered on several levels including Pfam domains, GeneOntology and KEGG pathways. Well established plant genome sites such as The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) and the Rice Genome Annotation Project are interfaced by Dr. Zompo. With this project, we have initialized a valuable resource for plant biologists in general and the seagrass community in particular. The database is expected to grow together with more data to come in the near future, particularly with the recent initiation of the Zostera genome sequencing project.The Dr. Zompo database is available at http://drzompo.uni-muenster.de/
20157761	Low thermotolerance of entomopathogenic fungi is a major impediment to long-term storage and effective application of these biopesticides under seasonal high temperatures. The effects of high temperatures on the viability of an entomopathogenic fungus, Isaria fumosorosea SFP-198 (KCTC 0499BP), produced on different substrates amended with various additives were explored. Ground corn was found to be superior in producing the most thermotolerant conidia compared to yellow soybean, red kidney bean, and rice in a polyethylene bag production system. Using ground corn mixed with corn oil as a substrate resulted in only 7% reduction in germination compared to ground corn alone (67% reduction) after exposure of conidia to 50 degrees C for 2 h. Corn oil as an additive for ground corn was followed by inorganic salts (KCl and NaCl), carbohydrates (sucrose and dextrin), a sugar alcohol (sorbitol), and plant oils (soybean oil and cotton seed oil) in ability to improve conidial thermotolerance. Unsaturated fatty acids, such as linoleic acid and oleic acid, the main components of corn oil, served as effective additives for conidial thermotolerance in a dosage-dependent manner, possibly explaining the improvement by corn oil. This finding suggests that the corn-corn oil mixture can be used to produce highly thermotolerant SFP-198 conidia and provides the relation of unsaturated fatty acids as substrates with conidial thermotolerance.
20157834	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) has often been associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. In this report, the heterogeneity of mitochondria was analyzed in both Honglian (HL) CMS (YtA) rice seedlings and those of its corresponding maintainers (YtB) by flow cytometry and staining with rhodamine-123 (Rh-123). Both lines revealed two distinct fluorescence populations: high fluorescence populations (HFP) and light fluorescence populations (LFP), and a somewhat lower LFP/HFP ratio was detected in conjunction with the higher reactive oxygen species (ROS) content in YtA. In addition, use of the specific effector hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) demonstrated a correlation between the LFP/HFP ratio and ROS levels in both lines. Higher ROS content caused a more swift decrease of F(0)F(1)-ATPase activity and ATP contents in YtA than those in YtB, which accompanied with an obvious decline of the LFP/HFP ratio in YtA. Furthermore, a mitochondrial genomic DNA smear was detected by pulsed field gel electrophoresis. Taken together, these results implied that HL-CMS line rice seedlings and those of its corresponding maintainer have different proportion of Rh-123 staining mitochondria populations, which may be accounted for by ROS contents on the basis of ATPase activity and ATP contents.
20158276	We present a very efficient and convenient approach to obtain smart biosurfaces by directly replicating biological surface structures. It is realized by a two-step replication process combining regular replica molding and temperature-induced phase separation micromolding (PSmicroM). The negative replicas of biological surface structures using poly(dimethylsiloxane) as the replication material are durable molds for further replication. The positive replicas of biological surface structures are obtained by the second step replication using PSmicroM of poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) aqueous solution, which can be easily carried out just by adjusting temperature. With cold water as good solvent and hot water as nonsolvent, an environmentally friendly PSmicroM process is successfully achieved, and organic solvents for PSmicroM are completely avoided. Our study has demonstrated that the micro- and nanostructures of the lotus leaf and rice leaf can be well replicated using this two-step replication process, and the replicated artificial lotus leaf and rice leaf using poly(N-isopropylacrylamide) exhibit good thermally responsive wettability.
20158335	Plague affects mainly the rural areas in the central highlands of Madagascar. Rattus rattus is the main rodent host of Yersinia pestis in these localities. Since the introduction of plague, endemic foci have continued to expand, and spatiotemporal variability in the distribution of human plague has been observed. To assess the movements of R. rattus and evaluate the risk of dispersion of the disease, a field study at the scale of the habitats (houses, hedges of sisals, and rice fields) in the plague villages was carried out during high and low seasons of plague transmission to humans. The systemic oral marker Rhodamine B was used to follow rats' movements. Baits were placed in different habitats, and trapping success was carried out once a month for 3 months after the bait distribution. Plague indicators (reservoirs' abundance, flea index, Y. pestis prevalence in fleas, and Y. pestis antibody prevalence in rats) were determined. The highest abundance of rats and marking efficiency were observed in the sisal hedges and the rice fields. Marked rats were captured most commonly near the points where baits were initially placed. The main movements of rats were observed between the houses and sisal hedges. Major differences were observed between the seasons of high and low plague transmission. During the season of low plague transmission, rats were more abundant in the sisal hedges and rice fields, with rats moving from the houses to the rice fields. During the high plague transmission season, rats moved from the hedges of sisal to the rice fields. Important indicators of vector abundance and plague transmission were higher during the high plague transmission season. The three study habitats were the risk areas for plague transmission, but the risk appeared highest in the houses and sisals. Rats' movements according to the season were likely directed by the availability of food.
20158491	Water soluble polysaccharides are most effective oncotic agents which are used for treatment of intravascular volume deficiency. Nowadays, they are used as basic material for plasma volume expander. Plasma volume expander based on starch has lower tendency to remain in any major organ of body in comparison to other plasma volume expander. Branched component of starch amylopectin is very similar in structure to glycogen, the reserve polysaccharides of animal; for all this reason starch is compatible with body tissues. Physicochemical properties of raw starch and amylopectin, isolated from Assam Bora rice were characterized for use as plasma volume expander. Characterization involves the determination of ash value, weight average molecular mass, viscosity and resistance towards enzymatic (amylase) hydrolysis. Amylose content was almost negligible. The X-ray diffraction pattern of Assam Bora rice starch was typically A type. High degree of crystallinity of Assam Bora rice starch reflects its resistance towards enzymatic hydrolysis which is of therapeutic advantage for using it as a plasma volume expander.
20159041	Recombinant protein production system using transgenic rice grain offers many advantages in higher accumulation, preservation, lower production cost, ease of scale up and low risk of contamination by toxic materials. We developed a transgenic rice strain whose seeds accumulate human interleukin (IL)-10, a cytokine that suppresses inflammation-related immune responses. We also developed a method of extracting and purifying IL-10 from rice seeds. A biochemical crosslinking method was used to detect the biologically active noncovalent dimer of IL-10. This method was useful for developing efficient methods of refolding and purification. The purified IL-10 comprised only noncovalent dimers and showed higher activity than the commercial IL-10. The purified IL-10 had very low endotoxin contamination and is expected to have broad clinical application.
2015936	Information on the silicon content of foods and diets is summarized from published literature, and the silicon content of US diets is calculated based on the Food and Drug Administration's Total Diet Study model and literature values for silicon in foods. Silicon levels tend to be higher in foods derived from plants than in foods from animal sources. Foods highest in silicon include grains, especially oats, barley and some rice fractions. Average daily intakes of silicon probably range from about 20 to 50 mg/day with the lower values for animal-based diets and the higher values for plant-based diets. The silicon content of adult US diets, based on the Total Diet Study model, is 19 mg/day for women and 40 mg/day for men.
2016048	We have identified genes for pathogenicity toward rice (Oryza sativa) and genes for virulence toward specific rice cultivars in the plant pathogenic fungus Magnaporthe grisea. A genetic cross was conducted between the weeping lovegrass (Eragrostis curvula) pathogen 4091-5-8, a highly fertile, hermaphroditic laboratory strain, and the rice pathogen O-135, a poorly fertile, female-sterile field isolate that infects weeping lovegrass as well as rice. A six-generation backcrossing scheme was then undertaken with the rice pathogen as the recurrent parent. One goal of these crosses was to generate rice pathogenic progeny with the high fertility characteristic of strain 4091-5-8, which would permit rigorous genetic analysis of rice pathogens. Therefore, progeny strains to be used as parents for backcross generations were chosen only on the basis of fertility. The ratios of pathogenic to nonpathogenic (and virulent to avirulent) progeny through the backcross generations suggested that the starting parent strains differ in two types of genes that control the ability to infect rice. First, they differ by polygenic factors that determine the extent of lesion development achieved by those progeny that infect rice. These genes do not appear to play a role in infection of weeping lovegrass because both parents and all progeny infect weeping lovegrass. Second, the parents differ by simple Mendelian determinants, "avirulence genes," that govern virulence toward specific rice cultivars in all-or-none fashion. Several crosses confirm the segregation of three unlinked avirulence genes, Avr 1-CO39, Avr 1-M201 and Avr1-YAMO, alleles of which determine avirulence on rice cultivars CO39, M201, and Yashiro-mochi, respectively. Interestingly, avirulence alleles of Avr1-CO39, Avr1-M201 and Avr1-YAMO were inherited from the parent strain 4091-5-8, which is a nonpathogen of rice. Middle repetitive DNA sequences ("MGR sequences"), present in approximately 40-50 copies in the genome of the rice pathogen parent, and in very low copy number in the genome of the nonpathogen of rice, were used as physical markers to monitor restoration of the rice pathogen genetic background during introgression of fertility. The introgression of highest levels of fertility into the most successful rice pathogen progeny was incomplete by the sixth generation, perhaps a consequence of genetic linkage between genes for fertility and genes for rice pathogenicity. One chromosomal DNA segment with MGR sequence homology appeared to be linked to the gene Avr1-CO39. Finally, many of the crosses described in this paper exhibited a characteristic common to many crosses involving M. grisea rice pathogen field isolates.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
2016064	Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is an efficient method for obtaining a desired nt sequence if both required primers can hybridize to the target DNA molecule specifically. A rapid and simple PCR-based method for analyzing plasmids using intact cells was established. An attempt to target a rice waxy sequence by PCR using homologous primers was also carried out. In three cases, specific fragments were amplified and their nucleotide sequences were determined. However, the cloned rice waxy gene contained base substitution mutations. The cumulative frequency of mutation after 30 polymerization cycles was estimated to be one in 500 bp.
20161598
20163183	Oligosaccharides produced by hydrothermal processing of rice husks (xylooligosaccharides and glucooligosaccharides) were refined by membrane processing (operating in diafiltration and concentration modes), subjected to xylanase treatment to reduce the average molar mass, and subjected to further purification by ultrafiltration (operating in concentration mode) and ion exchange. The purified products were assayed for composition, molar mass distribution and structural characterization by HPLC, HPAEC-PAD, HPSEC, MALDI-TOF-MS and NMR ((1)H and (13)C). The fermentability of the purified product by fecal inocula was assessed on the basis of the time courses of pH and oligosaccharide concentrations. Succinate, lactate, formiate, acetate, propionate and butyrate were the major products resulting from fermentation experiments.
20163472	The objective of the present study was to investigate the effect of fermented apple diet (FAD) supplementation on the growth performance and meat quality in finishing Berkshires. The FAD was made from dropped apple mixed with rice bran and barley bran. Until 81 +/- 1 kg live weight at 133 +/- 1 days, the animals were fed a growing diet, after which experimental samples were fixed at 0, 2, 4 and 6% FAD as C, T1, T2 and T3 in the finishing diets. Growth performance, ADG, ADFI and feed efficiency were improved in T1 than other groups. In carcass parameters, carcass weight was higher (P < 0.05) in T1 than in other groups. In meat quality, moisture and crude protein contents decreased (P < 0.05) by addition of FAD. pH(24) and WHC were higher (P < 0.05) in T1 than other groups. In sensory evaluation, marbling of fresh meat and tenderness, juiciness, flavor and overall acceptability of cooked meat were improved by the addition of FAD. According to the results of our experiment, FAD can be used for improvement of meat quality parameters.
20163552	*When supplied with arsenate (As(V)), plant roots extrude a substantial amount of arsenite (As(III)) to the external medium through as yet unidentified pathways. The rice (Oryza sativa) silicon transporter Lsi1 (OsNIP2;1, an aquaporin channel) is the major entry route of arsenite into rice roots. Whether Lsi1 also mediates arsenite efflux was investigated. *Expression of Lsi1 in Xenopus laevis oocytes enhanced arsenite efflux, indicating that Lsi1 facilitates arsenite transport bidirectionally. *Arsenite was the predominant arsenic species in arsenate-exposed rice plants. During 24-h exposure to 5 mum arsenate, rice roots extruded arsenite to the external medium rapidly, accounting for 60-90% of the arsenate uptake. A rice mutant defective in Lsi1 (lsi1) extruded significantly less arsenite than the wild-type rice and, as a result, accumulated more arsenite in the roots. By contrast, Lsi2 mutation had little effect on arsenite efflux to the external medium. *We conclude that Lsi1 plays a role in arsenite efflux in rice roots exposed to arsenate. However, this pathway accounts for only 15-20% of the total efflux, suggesting the existence of other efflux transporters.
20163602	To identify the effects of whole crop maize silage (MS) as a substitute for rice straw (RS) on feed intake and milk production of mid-late lactating buffalo and cattle in Tarai, Nepal, eight Murrah and eight Jersey-Hariana were fed the basal diet, RS (ad libitum) with concentrate (0.68% of bodyweight [BW] on a dry matter [DM] basis). A 4 x 4 Latin square design experiment was conducted in each animal species with graded levels of MS substitution for RS (0%, T1; 33%, T2; 67%, T3 and 100%, T4). The MS had higher digestibility and total digestible nutrient (TDN) than RS. The DM intake per BW of the both species was highest in T3. The substitution of MS for RS increased the crude protein intake and the TDN intake in the both species. Although the buffalo showed the highest milking performance in T4, the cattle showed no significant differences in their milking performance among the treatments. The substitution of MS for RS improved the feed intake and milk production in the buffalo. On the other hand, the milk yield was not raised in the cattle, though the feed intake was increased by the substitution.
20163604	Microbes such as yeast and Aspergillus are known to produce phytase, and Aspergillus phytase has been used as a feed additive for improving phytate-phosphorus bioavailability in monogastric animals. We measured phytase activity in some by-products from fermented food and beverage productions by yeast and Aspergillus. The phytase activity was as high as 3577 and 2225 PU/kg DM in raw and dried brewer's yeasts, respectively. On the other hand, the phytase activity was approximately 400 PU/kg DM in white-wine yeast and red-wine yeast. The phytase activity was further low in natto (fermented soybean) residue, soy sauce cake, rice brewer's grain and the activity was not detected in dried corn-barley distiller's grain with soluble and sweet-potato distiller's residue. The stability of phytase against pepsin was much lower in the brewer's yeast than in an Aspergillus phytase preparation. On the other hand, the addition of raw brewer's yeast effectively degraded phytate phosphorus in a corn-soybean meal diet during soaking. These results suggest that phytase in the examined by-products is not suitable for the phytase source of conventional diets, but that the soaking treatment with a raw brewer's yeast is an alternative method for improving phytate-phosphorus bioavailability in corn-soybean meal diets for pigs.
20163636	ABSTRACT An experiment was conducted to determine the effects of inclusion levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate (0, 15, 30 or 45%; on a dry matter basis) and roughage sources (rice straw or wheat straw) on finishing performance and carcass quality of cull beef cows. Sixteen Japanese Black (Wagyu) mature cull cows (490 +/- 31 kg of BW) were used in this experiment. Increasing the levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate and roughage sources did not significantly affect feed intake in cows. In addition, the final body weight, daily gain and feed : gain ratio were not influenced by the inclusion levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate and the type of roughage. Increasing the inclusion levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate would probably decrease the marbling score. The L* values of the longissimus muscle (LM) tended to respond quadratically (P = 0.078) as the inclusion levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate increased, and was lowest for cows fed the concentrate which included 30% potato pulp silage. The a* and b* values of the LM and fat color were not affected by the inclusion levels of potato pulp silage in concentrate. No effects of roughage sources on finishing performance were observed.
20163648	The objective of the present study was to apply two methods developed in ecology, the cycling index and input-output environs, to interpret nutrient flows in mixed rice-beef production systems. The cycling index (CI) was a quantitative measure of nutrient cycling. It was defined as the proportion of cycled nutrients to the total amount of nutrient flows. On the other hand, the input-output environs provide a quantitative distribution on a particular input or output. In this study, these methods were applied to the nutrient flows in the mixed rice-beef production systems in Japan. The results of CI provided information on the effects of nutrient cycling on the efficient conversion of nutrient imports to nutrient export. The results of input-output environs indicated that the indices represent indirect effects provided by the interaction between rice and beef production. In conclusion, these methods indicated new findings on nutrient utilization in the systems. The results of this study implied the further applicability of these two methods to the study of nutrient flows in mixed crop-animal production systems.
20163728	Larval mosquito habitats of potential malaria vectors and related species of Anopheles from three provinces (Gyeonggi, Gyeongsangbuk, Chungcheongbuk Provinces) of the Republic of Korea were surveyed in 2007. This study aimed to determine the species composition, seasonal occurrence and distributions of Anopheles mosquitoes. Satellite derived normalized difference vegetation index data (NDVI) was also used to study the seasonal abundance patterns of Anopheles mosquitoes. Mosquito larvae from various habitats were collected using a standard larval dipper or a white plastic larval tray, placed in plastic bags, and were preserved in 100% ethyl alcohol for species identification by PCR and DNA sequencing. The habitats in the monthly larval surveys included artificial containers, ground depressions, irrigation ditches, drainage ditches, ground pools, ponds, rice paddies, stream margins, inlets and pools, swamps, and uncultivated fields. All field-collected specimens were identified to species, and relationships among habitats and locations based on species composition were determined using cluster statistical analysis. In about 10,000 specimens collected, eight species of Anopheles belonging to three groups were identified: Hyrcanus Group - Anopheles sinensis, Anopheles kleini, Anopheles belenrae, Anopheles pullus, Anopheles lesteri, Anopheles sineroides; Barbirostris Group - Anopheles koreicus; and Lindesayi Group - Anopheles lindesayi japonicus. Only An. sinensis was collected from all habitats groups, while An. kleini, An. pullus and An. sineroides were sampled from all, except artificial containers. The highest number of Anopheles larvae was found in the rice paddies (34.8%), followed by irrigation ditches (23.4%), ponds (17.0%), and stream margins, inlets and pools (12.0%). Anopheles sinensis was the dominant species, followed by An. kleini, An. pullus and An. sineroides. The monthly abundance data of the Anopheles species from three locations (Munsan, Jinbo and Hayang) were compared against NDVI and NDVI anomalies. The species composition of Anopheles larvae varied in different habitats at various locations. Anopheles populations fluctuated with the seasonal dynamics of vegetation for 2007. Multi-year data of mosquito collections are required to provide a better characterization of the abundance of these insects from year to year, which can potentially provide predictive capability of their population density based on remotely sensed ecological measurements.
20163857	Use of sewage sludge in agriculture is an alternative disposal technique for this waste. The present field study was conducted to assess the suitability of sewage sludge amendment in soil for rice (Oryza sativa L. cv. Pusa sugandha 3) by evaluating the heavy metal accumulation, growth, biomass and yield responses of plants grown at 0, 3, 4.5, 6, 9, 12 kgm(-2) sewage sludge amendment (SSA) rate. Sewage sludge amendment modified the physico-chemical properties of soil, thus increasing the availability of heavy metals in soil and consequently with higher accumulation in plant parts. Root length decreased, whereas shoot length, number of leaves, leaf area and total biomass increased significantly when grown under various SSA rates. Yield of rice increased by 60%, 111%, 125%, 134% and 137% at 3, 4.5, 6, 9 and 12 kgm(-2) SSA, respectively, as compared to those grown in unamended soil. Sewage sludge amendment rates above 4.5 kgm(-2) though increased the yield of rice, but caused risk of food chain contamination as concentrations of Ni and Cd in rice grains were found to be above the Indian safe limits (1.5 mgkg(-1)) of human consumption above 4.5 kgm(-2) SSA and of Pb (2.5 mgkg(-1)) above 6 kgm(-2) SSA. Since aboveground parts of the rice also showed higher concentration than the permissible levels of Ni, Cd and Pb at 4.5 kgm(-2) SSA rate, it cannot be used as fodder. The rice husk may be used as bioresource for energy production. Efforts should be made to treat the effluents from small scale industries before discharge into the sewerage system.
20164144	High surface ozone concentration is increasingly being recognized as a factor that negatively affects crop yields in Asia. However, little progress has been made in developing ozone-tolerant genotypes of rice-Asia's major staple crop. This study aimed to identify possible tolerance mechanisms by characterizing two quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that were previously shown to influence visible leaf symptoms under ozone exposure (120 nl l(-1), 7 h d(-1), 13 d). Two chromosome segment substitution lines (SL15 and SL41) that carried introgressions of the QTLs OzT3 and OzT9, respectively, were exposed to ozone at 120 nl l(-1) along with their parent Nipponbare. In accordance with the expected QTL effect, SL15 showed stronger visible symptoms of ozone damage than Nipponbare, whereas SL41 had fewer symptoms. Gene expression profiling by microarray hybridization yielded 470 probes that were differentially expressed in SL15 and 314 in SL41. Potential tolerance mechanisms were evaluated by investigating changes in gene expression in three general categories. (i) Processes involved in programmed cell death, in which a number of genes related to ethylene or jasmonic acid metabolism or general disease resistance were identified that were differentially regulated in one of the substitution lines. (ii) Biosynthesis of antioxidants. Testing this hypothesis did not reveal any genes differentially regulated between genotypes, and it was thus rejected. (iii) Turnover of antioxidants and enzymatic detoxification of radical oxygen species (ROS), in which a number of differentially regulated genes were also identified. Genes encoding antioxidant enzymes (catalase and peroxidases) tended to be more strongly expressed in SL15. A potential tolerance gene which encodes a putative ascorbate oxidase was identified within the QTL introgression in SL41. This gene showed consistently lower expression in SL41 under ozone exposure across different points in time within independent experiments. Its expression may be involved in mechanisms leading to enhanced ascorbic acid status in SL41 under ozone exposure, and may be linked to a higher concentration of total apoplastic ascorbic acid in SL41 that was observed in an independent experiment.
2016590	We present evidence that rice tungro spherical virus (RTSV) has a genome of polyadenylated single-stranded RNA of about 10 kb whereas rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) contains double-stranded circular DNA. RTBV DNA has been mapped and shown to have two discontinuities, one in each strand, at specific sites; it thus resembles that of the caulimoviruses. Gel electrophoresis of RTSV preparations revealed two protein bands (Mr 35K and 26K). RTBV yielded two major protein bands of 37K and 33K together with several minor species of higher and lower Mr which react with antiviral serum.
20166663	The kinetics of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural (HMF) formation in Chinese rice wine was investigated under different treatment conditions. Samples I and II were the rough rice wine and outflow fraction of the rice wine from the macroporous resin, respectively. Sample III was the fraction derived from sample II loaded through ion-exchange resin. The HMF content of the different samples under a range of temperature values from 323.15 to 363.15 K was measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. The results demonstrated that the kinetics of HMF formation in sample I was determined as first-order [C(t) = C(0) exp(kt)], but those for samples II and III were found to be the zero-order reaction [C(t) = C(0) + kt]. For all three samples, the relationships of reaction rates (k) and temperature (T) were computed as follows: k(1) = 2.81 x 10(5) exp(-43.01/RT), k(2) = 2.33 x 10(18) exp(-123.90/RT), and k(3) = 1.79 x 10(13) exp(-89.16/RT). By applying the Arrhenius equation k = k(f) exp(-E(a)/RT), the activation energy was 43.01, 123.90, and 89.16 kJ mol(-1), respectively. On the basis of these kinetics equations, weak polar components such as phenolic groups may be involved in HMF formation.
20167099	The aim of this work is to identify major food sources and dietary constituents of Senegalese adults. We conducted a cross-sectional study, using a single 24-hour dietary recall interview. Foods were classified into food groups based on similarities in nutrient content or use. Food groups included foods consumed individually, or as part of food mixtures such as stews, soups, or sandwiches. Median consumption (amount/day) of each food was determined and examined by relevant subgroups. Participants were 50 healthy Senegalese men, aged 20-62 years recruited at the Hôpital Général de Grand Yoff in Dakar, Senegal and from Sendou village, a rural area outside Dakar. A total of 90 foods and beverages were identified and classified into 11 groups. Sixty-five percent of foods identified could be classified as meats, grains, or fruits/vegetables. Fruits and vegetables comprised 42% (38/90) of all foods; meats 12% (11/90); and grains 11% (10/90). Sauces (6%, 5/90), sweets (4%, 4/90), and desserts (4%, 4/90) were also reported. The most common fruits/vegetables reported were potato, carrot, mango, and lettuce; commonly reported grains were bread and rice; and commonly reported meats were fish, beef, and ox. There were no differences in reported daily intake of each food by age, ethnicity, education, or residence. Most foods reported were traditional to the Senegalese diet, despite the increasing availability of Western foods in Senegal.
20167122	Rice is one of the most important food crops in the world. With increasing world demand for food crops, there is an urgent need to develop new cultivars that have enhanced performance with regard to yield, disease resistance, and so on. Wild rice is expected to provide useful genetic resources that could improve the present cultivated species. However, the quantity and quality of these unexplored resources remain unclear. Recent accumulation of the genomic information of both cultivated and wild rice species allows for their comparison at the molecular level. Here, we compared the genome sequence of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica with sets of bacterial artificial chromosome end sequences (BESs) from two wild rice species, O. rufipogon and O. nivara, and an African rice species, O. glaberrima. We found that about four to five percent of the BESs of the two wild rice species and about seven percent of the African rice could not be mapped to the japonica genome, suggesting that a substantial number of genes have been lost in the japonica rice lineage; however, their close relatives still possess their counterpart genes. We estimated that during evolution, O. sativa has lost at least one thousand genes that are still preserved in the genomes of the other species. In addition, our BLASTX searches against the non-redundant protein sequence database showed that disease resistance-related proteins were significantly overrepresented in the close relative-specific genomic portions. In total, 235 unmapped BESs of the three relatives matched 83 non-redundant proteins that contained a disease resistance protein domain, most of which corresponded to an NBS-LRR domain. We found that the O. sativa lineage appears to have recently experienced massive gene losses following divergence from its wild ancestor. Our results imply that the domestication process accelerated large-scale genomic deletions in the lineage of Asian cultivated rice and that the close relatives of cultivated rice have the potential to restore the lost traits.
20167386	Plaa-som is a Thai fermented fish product for which whole fish or fish fillets are fermented with either cooked rice or steamed sticky rice, salt, and garlic. A total of 762 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) were isolated during plaa-som fermentation by culture on CaCO(3)-MRS agar plates. They were screened and grouped by amplified ribosomal DNA restriction analysis (ARDRA), giving six groups that were identified by ribosomal DNA sequencing as Lactococcus garvieae, Streptococcus bovis, Weissella cibaria, Pediococcus pentosaceus, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Lactobacillus fermentum. Freshly mixed ingredients contained low populations of LAB (less than 10 CFU/g) that subsequently grew during fermentation to final populations of approximately 10(7)CFU/g. Early stages of the process were dominated by the presence of Lc. garvieae, S. bovis, and W. cibaria. At 48 h into fermentation, W. cibaria, P. pentosaceus, and Lb. plantarum were prevalent, and gave way to a dominance of Lb. plantarum that completed the fermentation. A mixture of these LAB species could be considered as species for development of a starter culture for plaa-som fermentation.
20169401	The symptoms of rice tungro disease are caused by infection by a DNA-containing virus, rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV). To reduce expression of the RTBV promoter, and to ultimately reduce virus replication, we tested three synthetic zinc finger protein transcription factors (ZF-TFs), each comprised of six finger domains, designed to bind to sequences between -58 and +50 of the promoter. Two of these ZF-TFs reduced expression from the promoter in transient assays and in transgenic Arabidopsis thaliana plants. One of the ZF-TFs had significant effects on plant regeneration, apparently as a consequence of binding to multiple sites in the A. thaliana genome. Expression from the RTBV promoter was reduced by approximately 45% in transient assays and was reduced by up to 80% in transgenic plants. Co-expression of two different ZF-TFs did not further reduce expression of the promoter. These experiments suggest that ZF-TFs may be used to reduce replication of RTBV and thereby offer a potential method for control of an important crop disease.
20170980	Eight cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) inhibited shoot and root growth of Echinochloa crus-galli when co-cultured with rice seedlings in a bioassay medium. Momilactone A and B were found in the bioassay medium of all rice cultivars, and concentrations of momilactone A and B in the medium were 0.21-1.5 and 0.66-3.8 micromol/L, respectively, indicating that all rice cultivars may secrete momilactone A and B into the medium. Exogenously applied momilactone A and B inhibited the growth of shoots and roots of E. crus-galli at concentrations greater than 30 and 1 micromol/L, respectively. The concentrations required for 50% growth inhibition of E. crus-galli shoots and roots, respectively, were 146 and 91 micromol/L for momilactone A and 6.5 and 6.9 micromol/L for momilactone B. Considering the growth inhibitory activity and concentrations found in the bioassay medium, momilactone A may have caused only 0.8-2.2% of the observed growth inhibition of E. crus-galli roots and shoots by rice. However, momilactone B in the medium was estimated to be able to cause 59-82% of the observed growth inhibition of E. crus-galli roots and shoots by the rice seedlings. In addition, the concentrations of momilactone B in the medium reflected the observed differences in the growth inhibition of E. crus-galli by the eight rice cultivars investigated. This suggests that the allelopathic activity of rice may depend primarily on the secretion level of momilactone B. Therefore, momilactone B may play a very important role in rice allelopathy.
20171276	The National Research Council (NRC) of the National Academies of Science recently published a report of its vision of toxicity testing in the 21st century. The report proposes that the current toxicity testing paradigm that depends upon whole-animal tests be replaced with a strategy based upon in vitro tests, in silico models and evaluations of toxicity at the human population level. These goals are intended to set in motion changes that will transform risk assessment into a process in which adverse effects on public health are predicted by quantitative structure-activity relationship (QSAR) models and data from suites of high-throughput in vitro tests. The potential roles for whole-animal testing in this futuristic vision are both various and undefined. A symposium was convened at the annual meeting of the Neurobehavioral Teratology Society in Rio Grande, Puerto Rico in June, 2009 to discuss the potential challenges and opportunities for behavioral scientists in developing and/or altering this strategy toward the ultimate goal of protecting public health from hazardous chemicals. R. Kavlock described the NRC vision, introduced the concept of the 'toxicity pathway' (a central guiding principle of the NRC vision), and described the current status of an initial implementation this approach with the EPA's ToxCast(R) program. K. Crofton described a pathway based upon disruption of thyroid hormone metabolism during development, including agents, targets, and outcomes linked by this mode of action. P. Bushnell proposed a pathway linking the neural targets and cellular to behavioral effects of acute exposure to organic solvents, whose predictive power is limited by our incomplete understanding of the complex CNS circuitry that mediates the behavioral responses to solvents. B. Weiss cautioned the audience regarding a pathway approach to toxicity testing, using the example of the developmental toxicity of phthalates, whose effects on mammalian sexual differentiation would be difficult to identify based on screening tests in vitro. Finally, D. Rice raised concerns regarding the use of data derived from toxicity screening tests to human health risk assessments. Discussion centered around opportunities and challenges for behavioral toxicologists regarding this impending paradigm shift. Opportunities include: identifying and characterizing toxicity pathways; informing the conditions and limits of extrapolation; addressing issues of susceptibility and variability; providing reality-checks on selected positives and negatives from screens; and performing targeted testing and dose-response assessments of chemicals flagged during screening. Challenges include: predicting behavior using models of complex neurobiological pathways; standardizing study designs and dependent variables to facilitate creation of databases; and managing the cost and efficiency of behavioral assessments. Thus, while progress is being made in approaching the vision of 21st century toxicology, we remain a long way from replacing whole-animal tests; indeed, some animal testing will be essential for the foreseeable future at least. Initial advances will likely provide better prioritization tools so that animal resources are used more efficiently and effectively.
20171321	This study describes the development of a novel fluorescent tag, O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein, for the separation of sugars by capillary electrophoresis with fluorescence detection using an argon ion laser. The tag was synthesised using three consecutive steps namely: esterification, alkylation and hydrolysis, specifically designed to offer a flexible way in which to make an assortment of fluorescent tags from cheap and readily available starting reagents (typically less than $1 per g of fluorescent tag). Via this flexible synthetic pathway, O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein was designed and synthesised with a spacer group to lower steric effects between the fluorescein backbone and the reducing end of the carbohydrate which were anticipated to improve the reactivity of the tag. The newly synthesised tag, O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein was evaluated against structurally similar commercial fluorescent motifs namely fluorescent 5-aminomethylfluorescein and non-fluorescent 5-aminofluorescein. Kinetic studies indicated that O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein showed similar labeling efficiencies as 5-aminomethylfluorescein, but were achieved in only 30 min, supporting the notion of improved reactivity of the spacer group. The sensitivity of O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein was evaluated using maltoheptaose with a detection limit of 1 nM obtained, which was slightly higher than that of 0.3 nM obtained with 5-aminomethylfluorescein, and was due to its lower quantum yield (0.24) when conjugated to the sugar. The separation performance of the tag was also benchmarked with the two commercial reagents using a range of corn syrup oligosaccharides, from 4 to 10 glucose units, typically found in rice starch. Separations were performed using an electrolyte containing 100 mM boric acid, tris at pH 8.65 as background electrolyte, 30 kV applied voltage, 50 microm I.D. x 40 cm (30 cm effective length) capillary. The novel tag showed better resolution of small oligosaccharides, G3 and G4, than the other two reagents, but slightly worse resolution for the longer oligosaccharides, most likely due to the monovalent charge state of the O-2-[aminoethyl]fluorescein compared to the divalent charge of the other two tags.
20171575	Gibberellin (GA) 2-oxidase plays a key role in the GA catabolic pathway through 2beta-hydroxylation. In the present study, we isolated a CaMV 35S-enhancer activation tagged mutant, H032. This mutant exhibited a dominant dwarf and GA-deficient phenotype, with a final stature that was less than half of its wild-type counterpart. The endogenous bioactive GAs are markedly decreased in the H032 mutant, and application of bioactive GAs (GA(3) or GA(4)) can reverse the dwarf phenotype. The integrated T-DNA was detected 12.8 kb upstream of the OsGA2ox6 in the H032 genome by TAIL-PCR. An increased level of OsGA2ox6 mRNA was detected at a high level in the H032 mutant, which might be due to the enhancer role of the CaMV 35S promoter. RNAi and ectopic expression analysis of OsGA2ox6 indicated that the dwarf trait and the decreased levels of bioactive GAs in the H032 mutant were a result of the up-regulation of the OsGA2ox6 gene. BLASTP analysis revealed that OsGA2ox6 belongs to the class III of GA 2-oxidases, which is a novel type of GA2ox that uses C20-GAs (GA(12) and/or GA(53)) as the substrates. Interestingly, we found that a GA biosynthesis inhibitor, paclobutrazol, positively regulated the OsGA2ox6 gene. Unlike the over-expression of OsGA2ox1, which led to a high rate of seed abortion, the H032 mutant retained normal flowering and seed production. These results indicate that OsGA2ox6 mainly affects plant stature, and the dominant dwarf trait of the H032 mutant can be used as an efficient dwarf resource in rice breeding.
20171576	To understand the molecular mechanism of male reproductive development in the model crop rice, we isolated a complete male sterile mutant post-meiotic deficient anther1 (pda1) from a gamma-ray-treated rice mutant library. Genetic analysis revealed that the pda1 mutant was controlled by a recessive nucleus gene. The pda1 mutant anther seemed smaller with white appearance. Histological analysis demonstrated that the pda1 mutant anther undergoes normal early tapetum development without obvious altered meiosis. However, the pda1 mutant displayed obvious defects in postmeiotic tapetal development, abnormal degeneration occurred in the tapetal cells at stage 9 of anther development. Also we observed abnormal lipidic Ubisch bodies from the tapetal layer of the pda1 mutant, causing no obvious pollen exine formation. RT-PCR analysis indicated that the expression of genes involved in anther development including GAMYB, OsC4 and Wax-deficient anther1 (WDA1) was greatly reduced in the pda1 mutant anther. Using map-based cloning approach, the PDA1 gene was finely mapped between two markers HLF610 and HLF627 on chromosome 6 using 3,883 individuals of F(2) population. The physical distance between HLF610 and HLF627 was about 194 kb. This work suggests that PDA1 is required for post-meiotic tapetal development and pollen/microspore formation in rice.
20171577	Plant senescence plays diverse important roles in development and environmental responses. However, the molecular basis of plant senescence is remained largely unknown. A rice spontaneous mutant with the character of early senescence and male sterility (sms) was found in the breeding line NT10-748. In order to identify the gene SMS1 and the underlying mechanism, we preliminarily analyzed physiological and biochemical phenotypes of the mutant. The mutant contained lower chlorophyll content compared with the wild type control and was severe male sterile with lower pollen viability. Genetic analysis showed that the mutant was controlled by a single recessive gene. By the map-based cloning approach, we fine-mapped SMS1 to a 67 kb region between the markers Z3-4 and Z1-1 on chromo-some 8 using 1,074 F(2) recessive plants derived from the cross between the mutant sms1 (japonica) x Zhenshan 97 (indica), where no known gene involved in senescence or male sterility has been identified. Therefore the SMS1 gene will be a novel gene that regulates the two developmental processes. The further cloning and functional analysis of the SMS1 gene is under way.
20171578	The rice indica/japonica hybrid shows strong heterosis. However, such inter-subspecific hybrid can't be directly used in rice production due to its low spikelet fertility. The S5 locus was proved to be associated with fertility of indica/japonica hybrid and its S5n allele from wide-compatibility variety (WCV) is capable to overcome fertility barrier. In the present study, we reported the causal sites in the S5 locus responsible for compatibility of indica/japonica hybrid. Fine-mapping of the S5 locus using the 11 test-cross families pinpoints a candidate S5 locus encoding aspartic protease (Asp). Intragenic recombination within the Asp gene happened in a number of recombinants, resulting in chimeric S5j-S5n alleles. Just like S5n, the chimeric S5j-S5n allele displayed higher spikelet fertility when combined with the S5i allele. In the complementary test, however, the S5n allele from WCVs failed to enhance fertilities of the indica/japonica hybrids. Compared to both indica and japonica varieties, all nine WCVs from different resources are characterized with a 136 bp deletion in the Asp N-terminus, which probably renders the S5n allele non-functional. Furthermore, an A/C polymorphic site is detected 1,233 bp downstream of the Asp start codon. The heterozygous A/C site of the Asp gene in indica/japonica hybrid is believed to be the casual factor to cause partial sterility. The functional makers based on the two polymorphic sites will be broadly used in developing wide-compatibility rice varieties.
20171579	Rice tillering is one of the most important agronomic traits that determine grain yields. Our previous study has demonstrated that the MONOCULM1 (MOC1) gene is a key component that controls the formation of rice tiller buds. To further elucidate the molecular mechanism of MOC1 involved in the regulation of rice tillering, we performed a yeast-two-hybrid screening to identify MOC1 interacting proteins (MIPs). Here we reported that MIP1 interacted with MOC1 both in vitro and in vivo. The overexpression of MIP1 resulted in enhanced tillering and reduced plant height. In-depth characterization of the context of MIP1 and MOC1 would further our understanding of molecular regulatory mechanisms of rice tillering.
20171845	This study was performed to identify dietary patterns in Korean men and to determine the associations among dietary patterns, nutrient intake, and health-risk factors. Using baseline data from the Korean Health and Genome Study, dietary patterns were identified using factor analysis of data from a validated food-frequency questionnaire, and associations between these dietary patterns and health-risk factors were analyzed. Three dietary patterns were identified: 1) the "animal-food" pattern (greater intake of meats, fish, and dairy products), 2) the "rice-vegetable" pattern (greater intake of rice, tofu, kimchi, soybean paste, vegetables, and seaweed), and 3) the "noodle-bread" pattern (greater intake of instant noodles, Chinese noodles, and bread). The animal-food pattern (preferred by younger people with higher income and education levels) had a positive correlation with obesity and hypercholesterolemia, whereas the rice-vegetable pattern (preferred by older people with lower income and educational levels) was positively associated with hypertension. The noodle-bread pattern (also preferred by younger people with higher income and education levels) had a positive association with abdominal obesity and hypercholesterolemia. This study identifies three unique dietary patterns in Korean men, which are independently associated with certain health-risk factors. The rice-vegetable dietary pattern, modified for a low sodium intake, might be a healthy dietary pattern for Korean men.
20172203	The rennet of glutinous rice wine (wine rennet) is an exclusive clotting agent for Chinese Royal cheese production. Some characterizations are reported herein in an attempt to provide evidence about the use of the protease as either a rennet substitute or an accelerator in cheese making and ripening. The results showed that wine rennet was a monomeric and unglycosylated protease. The N-sequencing indicated a high degree of similarity to other fungal rennets. The cleavage sites of wine rennet on oxidized insulin B chain identified by HPLC-mass spectrometry included Gln(4)-His(5), Ala(14)-Leu(15), Leu(15)-Tyr(16), Tyr(16)-Leu(17), and Phe(24)-Phe(25) at pH 6.5, which were similar to those observed for Mucor rennet, but different from calf chymosin except for Leu(15)-Tyr(16). A comparison study of the kinetic properties of wine rennet on bovine caseins with that of rennets from calf and Mucor miehei by gel electrophoresis showed that these rennets had similar coagulation efficiency but different reaction rates. Wine rennet exhibited a higher degree of degradation than the calf and Mucor enzymes at pH 6.5 and 40 degrees C. Therefore, wine rennet would be an adjunct for calf rennet or an accelerator in cheese making.
20172226	Environmental stressors, such as high fly density, can affect calf well-being. Sodium bisulfate (SBS) is an acidifier that reduces the pH of flooring and bedding, creating a medium that neither bacteria nor immature flies (also known as larvae or maggots) can thrive in. Two experiments were conducted to investigate the application of SBS to a mixture of rice hull calf bedding and calf slurry (BED) to reduce house fly (Musca domestica L.) larval density and the abundance of bacteria. In experiment 1, dish pans containing 1L of BED and 3,000 house fly eggs were treated with SBS at concentrations of 0, 8.9, 17.7, and 26.5g of SBS/0.05m(2) of BED (CON, LOW, MED, and HIGH, respectively), with each SBS concentration applied to 4 individual pans (16 pans total). Reapplication of the same SBS concentrations in each pan occurred 3 times/wk throughout the 23-d trial. Larval house fly survival was significantly reduced in all pans with SBS relative to CON pans, with lowest survival rates in the MED and HIGH pans (99% and 100% reduction, respectively). The mean pH for each treatment was inversely related to the SBS concentration. In experiment 2, pans containing 1L of BED and 3,000 house fly eggs were treated with either 0g of SBS (CON), 8.9g of SBS/0.05m(2) of BED with reapplication of the acidifier 3 times/wk (SB3x), or 8.9g of SBS/0.05m(2) of BED applied only once at 48h before the end of the 8 d-trial (SB48). Larval house fly survival and bacterial concentrations were reduced (90% larval reduction and 68% bacterial reduction) in the SB3x treatment relative to the CON. Mean pH was also reduced in SB3x pans relative to CON or SB48 pans. Overall, acidification of calf BED using the acidifier SBS resulted in a reduction of bacteria and house fly larval survival. This form of fly control might be expected to reduce adult fly production and, therefore, fly-related stress in calves.
20172965	We characterized the absorption and short-term translocation of cadmium (Cd) in rice (Oryza sativa 'Nipponbare') quantitatively using serial images observed with a positron-emitting tracer imaging system. We fed a positron-emitting 107Cd (half-life of 6.5 h) tracer to the hydroponic culture solution and noninvasively obtained serial images of Cd distribution in intact rice plants at the vegetative stage and at the grain-filling stage every 4 min for 36 h. The rates of absorption of Cd by the root were proportional to Cd concentrations in the culture solution within the tested range of 0.05 to 100 nm. It was estimated that the radial transport from the culture to the xylem in the root tissue was completed in less than 10 min. Cd moved up through the shoot organs with velocities of a few centimeters per hour at both stages, which was obviously slower than the bulk flow in the xylem. Finally, Cd arrived at the panicles 7 h after feeding and accumulated there constantly, although no Cd was observed in the leaf blades within the initial 36 h. The nodes exhibited the most intensive Cd accumulation in the shoot at both stages, and Cd transport from the basal nodes to crown root tips was observed at the vegetative stage. We conclude that the nodes are the central organ where xylem-to-phloem transfer takes place and play a pivotal role in the half-day travel of Cd from the soil to the grains at the grain-filling stage.
2017396	The effect of starch contained in different foods on colonic proliferation was studied in C57BL/6N mice after four weeks of feeding with 20% fat diets containing cornstarch, white bread, pasta, and rice; an equicaloric amount of sucrose was used in a control diet. Cell proliferation was evaluated in different subsites of the colon (rectal end, mid colon and cecal end) by colchicine arrest and [3H]thymidine incorporation. The following parameters were analyzed: mitotic index (MI), labeling index (LI), and the distribution of labeled cells along the crypt. Different results were obtained in the different subsites. At the rectal end of the colon, all diets containing starch lowered cell proliferation compared with the sucrose diet. The values for MI in the different diets were 2.56 +/- 0.22, 1.73 +/- 0.30, 1.37 +/- 0.19, 1.61 +/- 0.29, and 1.29 +/- 0.31 for control, cornstarch, white bread, pasta, and rice, respectively. Values are means +/- SE (n = 10). The values for LI showed a similar pattern. In the mid colon, the MI was significantly lowered only by the diet containing rice, whereas the DNA synthetic activity (LI) was lowered by cornstarch, pasta, and rice. Toward the cecal end, we observed a significant reduction in MI with diets containing pasta and rice and in the LI with diets containing pasta. The distribution of the LI along the crypt in the different subsites was not significantly affected by experimental dietary variations. The results suggest that starch from different dietary sources might reduce colon proliferation in the mouse.
20175088	Molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) for citrinin (Cit) with 1-hydroxy-2-naphthoic acid (HNA) as mimic template were prepared and the molecularly imprinted SPE method was developed for the detection of Cit in rice with HPLC. The adsorption properties of HNA and Cit on the MIPs and nonimprinted polymers were investigated. It proved that MIPs showed higher selectivity adsorption to HNA and Cit than nonimprinted polymers were. The recoveries of Cit in rice were in the range of 86.7-97.7%. The spiked rice samples and five rice samples in Beijing market were detected using molecularly imprinted SPE method and satisfied results were obtained as discussed in this article.
20176338	A field experiment was conducted to evaluate photosynthetic efficiency along with different growth parameters of aromatic rice genotypes. Forty genotypes including three non-aromatic checks exhibited enormous variations for leaf area index (LAI), crop growth rate (CGR), relative growth rate (RGR), net assimilation rate (NAR), grain yield, total dry matter, harvest index and photosynthetic efficiency or energy use efficiency (Emu) at panicle initiation and heading stages. Minimum LAI-value was 0.52 in Khazar at PI stage and maximum was 4.91 in Sakkor khora at heading stage. The CGR-value was in the range of 4.80-24.11 g m(-2) per day. The best yielder BR39 produced grain of 4.21 t ha(-1) and the worst yielder Khazar gave 1.42 t ha(-1). Total dry matter (TDM) yield varied from 4.04 to 12.26 t ha(-1) where genotypes proved their energy use efficiency a range between 0.58 to 1.65%. Emu showed a significant positive relation with TDM (r=0.80(**)), CGR (r=0.72(**)) and grain yield (r=0.66(**)). A negative correlation was established between TDM and harvest index and LAI and RGR. Path analysis result showed that NAR at heading stage exerted highest positive direct effect (0.70) on Emu.
20177466	Waxes have been used in many cosmetic preparations and pharmaceuticals as formulation aids. Rice bran wax is a byproduct of rice bran oil industry. Present investigation has been aimed to explore the possible utility of rice bran wax as ointment base compared to standard base. The rice bran wax obtained, purified and its physicochemical characteristics were determined. Ointment base acts as a carrier for medicaments. The ointment base composition determines not only the extent of penetration but also controls the transfer of medicaments from the base to the body tissues. Rice bran wax base was compared with standard base for appearance, spreadability, water number, wash ability and diffusibility. The results show that rice bran wax acts as an ointment base as far as its pharmaceutical properties are concerned and it could effectively replace comparatively costlier available ointment bases.
20177822	The benzene tolerant Acinetobacter baylyi isolated from marine sludge in Angsila, Thailand could constitutively secrete lipolytic enzymes. The enzyme was successfully purified 21.89-fold to homogeneity by ammonium sulfate precipitation and gel-permeable column chromatography with a relative molecular mass as 30 kDa. The enzyme expressed maximum activity at 60 degrees C and pH 8.0 with p-nitrophenyl palmitate as a substrate and found to be stable in pH and temperature ranging from 6.0-9.0 to 60-80 degrees C, respectively. A study on solvent stability revealed that the enzyme was highly resisted to many organic solvents especially benzene and isoamyl alcohol, but 40% inhibited by decane, hexane, acetonitrile, and short-chain alcohols. Lipase activity was completely inhibited in the presence of Fe(2+), Mn(2+), EDTA, SDS, and Triton X-100 while it was suffered detrimentally by Tween 80. The activity was enhanced by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), Na(+), and Mg(2+) and no significant effect was found in the presence of Ca(2+) and Li(+). Half of an activity was retained by Ba(2+), Ag(+), Hg(+), Ni(2+), Zn(2+), and DTT. The enzyme could hydrolyze a wide range of p-nitrophenyl esters, but preferentially medium length acyl chains (C(8)-C(12)). Among natural oils and fats, the enzyme 11-folds favorably catalyzed the hydrolysis of rice bran oil, corn oil, sesame oil, and coconut oil in comparison to palm oil. Moreover, the transesterification activity of palm oil to fatty acid methyl esters (FAMEs) revealed 31.64 +/- 1.58% after 48 h. The characteristics of novel A. baylyi lipase, as high temperature stability, organic solvent tolerance, and transesterification capacity from palm oil to FAMEs, indicate that it could be a vigorous biocatalyzer in the prospective fields as bioenergy industry or even in organic synthesis and pharmaceutical industry.
20178392	Clomazone (trade names Cerano and Command) is a popular herbicide used on California rice fields to control aquatic weeds. Its physicochemical characteristics indicate that it will persist primarily in the water column, where microbial degradation may drive its environmental fate. The objectives were to determine microbial degradation rates and compare the metabolic products under aerobic and anaerobic conditions similar to those in California rice fields during the summer. Time-series samples were extracted and analyzed by LC/MS/MS. Metabolic profiling revealed the following clomazone-derived transitions: m/z 240 --> 125 (clomazone), m/z 242 --> 125 (ring-open clomazone), m/z 256 --> 125 (5-hydroxyclomazone), m/z 256 --> 141 (aromatic hydroxyclomazone), m/z 268 --> 125 (unknown metabolite), and m/z 272 --> 141 (4'5-dihydroxyclomazone). Results indicate an anaerobic half-life of 7.9 days, with ring-open clomazone reaching 67.4% of application at 38 days. Aerobically, clomazone degraded more slowly (t(1/2) = 47.3 days), forming mostly soil-bound residues. Thus, under summer conditions, clomazone is likely to dissipate rapidly from fields via anaerobic degradation.
20181034	Progress in plant cell cycle research is highly dependent on reliable methods for detection of cells replicating DNA. Frequency of S-phase cells (cells in DNA synthesis phase) is a basic parameter in studies on the control of cell division cycle and the developmental events of plant cells. Here we extend the microscopy and flow cytometry applications of the recently developed EdU (5-ethynyl-2'-deoxyuridine)-based S-phase assay to various plant species and tissues. We demonstrate that the presented protocols insure the improved preservation of cell and tissue structure and allow significant reduction in assay duration. In comparison with the frequently used detection of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) and tritiated-thymidine incorporation, this new methodology offers several advantages as we discuss here. Applications of EdU-based S-phase assay in microscopy and flow cytometry are presented by using cultured cells of alfalfa, Arabidopsis, grape, maize, rice and tobacco. We present the advantages of EdU assay as compared to BrdU-based replication assay and demonstrate that EdU assay -which does not require plant cell wall digestion or DNA denaturation steps, offers reduced assay duration and better preservation of cellular, nuclear and chromosomal morphologies. We have also shown that fast and efficient EdU assay can also be an efficient tool for dual parameter flow cytometry analysis and for quantitative assessment of replication in thick root samples of rice. In plant cell cycle studies, EdU-based S-phase detection offers a superior alternative to the existing S-phase assays. EdU method is reliable, versatile, fast, simple and non-radioactive and it can be readily applied to many different plant systems.
20181251	Although the overwhelming majority of genes found in angiosperms are members of gene families, and both gene- and genome-duplication are pervasive forces in plant genomes, some genes are sufficiently distinct from all other genes in a genome that they can be operationally defined as 'single copy'. Using the gene clustering algorithm MCL-tribe, we have identified a set of 959 single copy genes that are shared single copy genes in the genomes of Arabidopsis thaliana, Populus trichocarpa, Vitis vinifera and Oryza sativa. To characterize these genes, we have performed a number of analyses examining GO annotations, coding sequence length, number of exons, number of domains, presence in distant lineages, such as Selaginella and Physcomitrella, and phylogenetic analysis to estimate copy number in other seed plants and to demonstrate their phylogenetic utility. We then provide examples of how these genes may be used in phylogenetic analyses to reconstruct organismal history, both by using extant coverage in EST databases for seed plants and de novo amplification via RT-PCR in the family Brassicaceae. There are 959 single copy nuclear genes shared in Arabidopsis, Populus, Vitis and Oryza ["APVO SSC genes"]. The majority of these genes are also present in the Selaginella and Physcomitrella genomes. Public EST sets for 197 species suggest that most of these genes are present across a diverse collection of seed plants, and appear to exist as single or very low copy genes, though exceptions are seen in recently polyploid taxa and in lineages where there is significant evidence for a shared large-scale duplication event. Genes encoding proteins localized in organelles are more commonly single copy than expected by chance, but the evolutionary forces responsible for this bias are unknown.Regardless of the evolutionary mechanisms responsible for the large number of shared single copy genes in diverse flowering plant lineages, these genes are valuable for phylogenetic and comparative analyses. Eighteen of the APVO SSC single copy genes were amplified in the Brassicaceae using RT-PCR and directly sequenced. Alignments of these sequences provide improved resolution of Brassicaceae phylogeny compared to recent studies using plastid and ITS sequences. An analysis of sequences from 13 APVO SSC genes from 69 species of seed plants, derived mainly from public EST databases, yielded a phylogeny that was largely congruent with prior hypotheses based on multiple plastid sequences. Whereas single gene phylogenies that rely on EST sequences have limited bootstrap support as the result of limited sequence information, concatenated alignments result in phylogenetic trees with strong bootstrap support for already established relationships. Overall, these single copy nuclear genes are promising markers for phylogenetics, and contain a greater proportion of phylogenetically-informative sites than commonly used protein-coding sequences from the plastid or mitochondrial genomes. Putatively orthologous, shared single copy nuclear genes provide a vast source of new evidence for plant phylogenetics, genome mapping, and other applications, as well as a substantial class of genes for which functional characterization is needed. Preliminary evidence indicates that many of the shared single copy nuclear genes identified in this study may be well suited as markers for addressing phylogenetic hypotheses at a variety of taxonomic levels.
20182746	The plant RNase T2 family is divided into two different subfamilies. S-RNases are involved in rejection of self-pollen during the establishment of self-incompatibility in three plant families. S-like RNases, on the other hand, are not involved in self-incompatibility, and although gene expression studies point to a role in plant defense and phosphate recycling, their biological roles are less well understood. Although S-RNases have been subjects of many phylogenetic studies, few have included an extensive analysis of S-like RNases, and genome-wide analyses to determine the number of S-like RNases in fully sequenced plant genomes are missing. We characterized the eight RNase T2 genes present in the Oryza sativa genome; and we also identified the full complement of RNase T2 genes present in other fully sequenced plant genomes. Phylogenetics and gene expression analyses identified two classes among the S-like RNase subfamily. Class I genes show tissue specificity and stress regulation. Inactivation of RNase activity has occurred repeatedly throughout evolution. On the other hand, Class II seems to have conserved more ancestral characteristics; and, unlike other S-like RNases, genes in this class are conserved in all plant species analyzed and most are constitutively expressed. Our results suggest that gene duplication resulted in high diversification of Class I genes. Many of these genes are differentially expressed in response to stress, and we propose that protein characteristics, such as the increase in basic residues can have a defense role independent of RNase activity. On the other hand, constitutive expression and phylogenetic conservation suggest that Class II S-like RNases may have a housekeeping role.
20182816	The production of fermentable sugars from rice hull was studied by dilute acid pretreatment and enzymatic saccharification. Rice hull (15%, w/v) was pretreated by 1% (v/v) sulfuric acid at high temperature (120 approximately 160 degrees C) for 15, 30, 45, and 60 min, respectively. The maximum sugar concentration from rice hull in the prehydrolysate was obtained at 140 degrees C for 30 min, but the enzymatic saccharification yield from the corresponding pretreated rice hull is not high. To another aspect, the maximum enzymatic saccharification yield was achieved at 160 degrees C for 60 min, while the recovery of fermentable sugars was the poorest. To take account of fermentable sugars from pretreatment and enzymatic saccharification, the maximum yield of sugars was obtained only when rice hull was treated at 140 degrees C for 30 min. Under this condition, 72.5% (w/w) of all sugars generated from the raw material can be recovered. The kinetic study on the enzymatic saccharification of dilute acid pretreated rice hull was also performed in this work by a modified Michaelis-Menten model and a diffusion-limited model. After calculation by a linear and a non-linear regression analysis, both models showed good relation with the experimental results.
20183045	The aim of this study was to assess the performance of a method of analyzing pesticides in rice by using pressurized liquid extraction (PLE) and to perform a preliminary monitoring by using that method. The instrumental quantification limit, instrumental detection limit, method quantification limit, and method detection limit were determined. PLE temperature was also optimized for 6 target pesticides. Mean recoveries of spiked rice with target pesticides (4 ng/g and 40 ng/g) were 83%-109% with the repeatability of the analysis, represented as relative standard deviations, ranged from 1.3% to 11% (n = 5) for PLE at 130 degrees C. These results were satisfactory according to the method of positive list in Japan. In a preliminary analysis of 10 target pesticides in 54 commercial rice samples, ferimzone was detected in only one unpolished rice sample.
20183081	Quick, simple and efficient multi-residue analytical methods were developed and validated for the determination of organophosphorous insecticides from polished and cooked rice. Polished rice was extracted using a simple, automated technique namely accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) using dichloromethane as the extraction solvent. Cooked rice was extracted with acetone and cleaned up using dispersive-solid phase extraction (D-SPE) technique. The single step extraction method adopted for polished rice using accelerated solvent extractor provided satisfactory recovery for eight organophosphorus pesticides (OPPs) which ranged from 85.5-116.7%; 90.0-110.3% and 93.5-118.8% at 1, 5 and 10 limit of quantification (LOQ) levels, respectively. The recovery of cooked rice was in the range of 74-124%; from 75-100% and from 73-87% for 1, 5 and 10 level of fortification, respectively. The total uncertainty was evaluated, taking four main independent sources viz., weighing, purity of the standard, GC calibration curve and repeatability under consideration. The expanded uncertainty was found to be in the range of 5-20%.
20183091	The photolysis of a rice herbicide Bispyribac sodium (Sodium 2, 6-bis [(4, 6-dimethoxypyrimidin-2-yl) oxy] benzoate) has been studied in different aqueous medium (distilled water, pond water and Irrigation water) under the influence of UV (lambda max > or = 250 nm) and sunlight in presence or absence of sensitizers (TiO(2) and KNO(3)). The study was conducted under laboratory simulated condition which made it possible to evaluate the contribution of different factors viz. source of irradiation, solvent and sensitizers towards the photolysis of bispyribac sodium. The photodegradation proceeds via first order reaction Kinetics in all the cases. Five photo metabolites (M(1)-M(5)) were isolated in pure form by column chromatographic method from the irradiation system under UV influenced and TiO(2) as sensitizer. From the different spectral data (IR, NMR, UV-VIS, Mass) the structure of these five metabolites were assigned as M(1) (Phenol), M(2) [2, 6-Dihydroxy benzoic acid], M(3) [2, 6-bis [(4, 6 dimethoxypyrimidin-2yl) oxy] benzoic acid], M(4) [2-(3-Hydroxy-phenoxy)-pyrimidine-4, 6-diol] and M(5) as [2,4-Dihydroxy-3, 5-dimethoxy-6-(4-methoxy pyrimidine-2-yloxy)-benzoic acid]. Moreover, another six photometabolites (M(6)-M(11)) were identified from the different irradiation system on the basis of Micromass analysis. On the basis of MS/MS data analysis, the structure of these six photometabolites were assigned as M(6) [2-(4, 6-Dimethoxy-pyrimidin-2-yloxy)-6-hydroxy-benzoic acid], M(7) [2-Hydroxy-6-(4-hydroxy-6-methoxy-pyrimidin-2-yloxy)-benzoic acid], M(8) [4, 6-Dimethoxy-pyrimidin-2-ol], M(9) [6-Methoxy-pyrimidine-2, 4-diol], M(10) [2-Hydroxy-6-(pyrimidin-2-yloxy)-benzoic acid] and M(11) [2, 4, 6-Trimethoxy-pyrimidine]. The plausible Photodegradation pathways of bispyribac sodium in the present investigation were portrayed which proceeds via hydrolysis, hydrolytic cleavage, O-dealkylation, decarboxylation, dehydroxylation, O-alkylation and hydroxylation.
20183326	A new decalin derivative, monascusic acid A (1), together with a new natural product (2), was isolated from the ethanol extract of red yeast rice. Their structures were elucidated by spectroscopic methods.
20184774	The three-dimensional shape of grain, measured as grain length, width, and thickness (GL, GW, and GT), is one of the most important components of grain appearance in rice. Determining the genetic basis of variations in grain shape could facilitate efficient improvements in grain appearance. In this study, an F7:8 recombinant inbred line population (RIL) derived from a cross between indica and japonica cultivars (Nanyangzhan and Chuan7) contrasting in grain size was used for quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping. A genetic linkage map was constructed with 164 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. The major aim of this study was to detect a QTL for grain shape and to fine map a minor QTL, qGL7. Four QTLs for GL were detected on chromosomes 3 and 7, and 10 QTLs for GW and 9 QTLs for GT were identified on chromosomes 2, 3, 5, 7, 9 and 10, respectively. A total of 28 QTLs were identified, of which several are reported for the first time; four major QTLs and six minor QTLs for grain shape were also commonly detected in both years. The minor QTL, qGL7, exhibited pleiotropic effects on GL, GW, GT, 1000-grain weight (TGW), and spikelets per panicle (SPP) and was further validated in a near isogenic F2 population (NIL-F2). Finally, qGL7 was narrowed down to an interval between InDel marker RID711 and SSR marker RM6389, covering a 258-kb region in the Nipponbare genome, and cosegregated with InDel markers RID710 and RID76. Materials with very different phenotypes were used to develop mapping populations to detect QTLs because of their complex genetic background. Progeny tests proved that the minor QTL, qGL7, could display a single mendelian characteristic. Therefore, we suggested that minor QTLs for traits with high heritability could be isolated using a map-based cloning strategy in a large NIL-F2 population. In addition, combinations of different QTLs produced diverse grain shapes, which provide the ability to breed more varieties of rice to satisfy consumer preferences.
2018495	The endogenous phosphorylation pattern of the extract prepared from rice young panicle has been examined. The extract was phosphorylated in vitro by incubating with [gamma-32p] ATP, and then analyzed by SDS-PAGE and autoradiography. At least eight major phosphoproteins with apparent molecular weights of 70, 60, 52, 40, 33, 30, 20, 16 and 15 kd were detected in the crude extract of rice young panicle. The pp70 which represents the major phosphoprotein in the crude extract of young panicle of rice is a cytosolic protein. Photoaffinity labeling with 8-azido-ATP revealed that a major protein with molecular weight 42,000 dalton but not pp70 can be specifically bound ATP. This suggests that pp70 is not a protein kinase itself, but a substrate of protein kinase. The in vitro phosphorylation of the pp70 occurs at a serine or threonine residue and is time and temperature dependent. The phosphorylation of pp70 does not depend by exogenous Ca++ or cAMP, suggesting that pp70 is a major substrate of an Ca++ or cAMP independent protein kinase in rice young panicle.
20185013	Chinese red yeast rice is a dietary supplement containing monacolins, unsaturated fatty acids, and phytosterols capable of lowering low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol. Few studies have reported on its use in clinical practice or in statin-intolerant patients. We reviewed approximately 1,400 clinical charts and identified 25 patients treated with red yeast rice for > or =4 weeks. The patients were included if they had pre- and post-treatment lipid levels without simultaneous changes in other lipid-lowering medications. These patients had experienced myalgias (68%), gastrointestinal intolerance (16%), and/or elevated alanine aminotransferase levels (8%) with previous use of other lipid-lowering agents. The total cholesterol decreased 15% (-37 +/- 26 mg/dl, p <0.001) and LDL cholesterol decreased 21% (-35 +/- 25 mg/dl, p <0.001) during 74 +/- 39 days of treatment. Most (92%) patients tolerated the treatment, and many (56%) achieved their LDL cholesterol goal. In patients unable to tolerate daily statin use, the total cholesterol level decreased 13% (-33 +/- 10 mg/dl, p <0.001) and LDL cholesterol decreased 19% (-31 +/- 4 mg/dl, p <0.001). In conclusion, red yeast rice modestly decreased total and LDL cholesterol, was well-tolerated, and was an acceptable alternative in patients intolerant of other lipid-lowering medications.
20185300	Rice hulls (RH) and bean hulls (BH) were subjected to prehydrolysis treatments, to define the optimum conditions for producing a high percentage of hydrolyzed hemicellulose with a small or moderate degradation of the cellulosic portion. The hydrolysis experiments were performed using hydrochloric and sulfuric acids in concentrations ranging from (0.5 to 5)% (w/w) at 120 degrees C for 90 min and 10% consistency. The effects of different temperatures (80 to 120 degrees C) and time (30 to 120 min) on acid hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials were recorded. It was found that, the optimum condition to hydrolyze the lignocellulosic materials (RH) and (BH) are 2% (w/w) of mineral acid at 120 degrees C for 90 min and 10% consistency. The cellulose crystallinity index in the different types of lignocellulosic materials with and without acid treatment, were increased from 0.32 to 0.46 in case of RH and from 0.43 to 0.61 in case of BH. Due to the lignin depolymerization during the pretreatment process, the relative absorbency of the methoxyl group and the aromatic rings bands were lowered for the pretreated than the untreated lignocellulosic materials. Also, the band at 1730 cm(-1) which is attributed to carbonyl groups of uronic acids was lowered due the hemicellulose hydrolysis.
20187609	The present study developed an improved analytical method for simultaneous quantification of seven neonicotinoids in food by ultraperformance liquid chromatography combined with electrospray ionization triple quadrupole tandem mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS/MS) under the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode. The optimization of extraction, cleanup, UPLC separation and MS/MS parameters of analytes were especially focused on. The low limits of quantification (LOQs) of neonicotinoids ranged from 0.1 to 6 microg kg(-1). Meanwhile, reasonable recoveries (65-120%) of seven neonicotinoids for food including apple, cabbage, potato, rice, tea, milk, chicken, pork and egg were demonstrated in different spiked levels within their respective linear range (0.025-150 microg kg(-1)). The developed analytical method would be appropriate for the routine, high throughput, high sensitivity quantification of seven neonicotinoids using simple sample pretreatment.
20188068	The functional role of rice (Oryza sativa) germin-like protein1 (OsGLP1) was elucidated through development of transgenic plants involving endogenous gene silencing in rice and heterologous gene expression in tobacco. Usually, the single copy OsGLP1 gene in rice plant was found to be expressed predominantly in green vegetative tissues. The transgenic rice lines showed significant reduction in endogenous OsGLP1 expression due to 26nt siRNA-mediated gene silencing, displayed semi-dwarfism and were affected seriously by fungal diseases, compared to the untransformed plant. Structural homology modeling predicted a superoxide dismutase (SOD) domain in OsGLP1 protein which upon over-expression in transgenic tobacco plant clearly documented SOD activity. Our observations on the maintenance of cell dimension, cell wall-associated localization particularly in the sub-epidermal tissues and the SOD activity of OsGLP1 could explain its functional role in regulation of plant height and disease resistance in rice plant.
20188622	Recent progress in genomics has provided complete or near complete genome sequences of several C(3) (e.g. Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar) and C(4) (e.g. sorghum and maize) plant species. These genome sequences enabled comparative quantitative proteomic and transcriptomic analyses of C(3) and C(4) plants, in particular of their chloroplasts. Such analyses have revealed a comprehensive picture of the distribution of C(4) pathway components between bundle sheath and mesophyll cell chloroplasts and they permitted the prediction of novel pathway components. A comprehensive understanding of the C(4) photosynthetic mechanism is required for the transfer of C(4)-like photosynthesis into C(3) crop plants, such as rice.
20188718	In microorganisms hydroxy fatty acids are produced from the biotransformation of unsaturated fatty acids. Such compounds belong to a class of oxylipins which are reported to perform a variety of biological functions such as anti-inflammatory or cytotoxic activity. These compounds have been found in rice and timothy plants after being infected by specific fungus. When grown in submerged culture with linoleic acid, Pseudomonas 42A2 accumulated in the supernatant several hydroxy fatty acids. In this work LC-MS/MS has been used to elucidate the structure of the components form the organic extract: 9-hydroxy-10,12-octadecadienoic acid; 13-hydroxy-9,11-octadecadienoic acid; 7,10-dihydroxy-8E-octadecenoic acid; 9,10,13-trihydroxy-11-octadecenoic acid and 9,12,13-trihydroxy-10-octadecenoic acid. Antimicrobial activity against several pathogenic fungal strains is presented: MIC (microg/mL) Verticillium dhaliae, 32; Macrophonia phaesolina, 32; Arthroderma uncinatum, 32; Trycophyton mentagrophytes, 64.
20188881	A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method with capacitively coupled contactless conductivity detector (C(4)D) has been developed for the separation and the simultaneous determination of five underivatized long chain fatty acids (FAs), namely myristic, palmitic, stearic, oleic, and linoleic acids. An isocratic elution mode using methanol/1mM sodium acetate (78:22, v/v) as mobile phase with a flow rate of 0.6 mL min(-1) was used. The separation was effected by using a Hypersil ODS C(18) analytical column (250 mm x 4.6 mm x 5 microm) and was operated at 45 degrees C. Calibration curves of the five FAs were well correlated (r(2)>0.999) within the range of 5- 200 microg mL(-1) for stearic acid, and 2-200 microg mL(-1) for the other FAs. The proposed method was tested on four vegetable oils, i.e., pumpkin, soybean, rice bran and palm olein oils; good agreement was found with the standard gas chromatographic (GC) method. The proposed method offers distinct advantages over the official GC method, especially in terms of simplicity, faster separation times and sensitivity.
20190078	To gain entry to plants, many pathogenic fungi develop specialized infection structures called appressoria. Here, we demonstrate that appressorium morphogenesis in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae is tightly regulated by the cell cycle. Shortly after a fungus spore lands on the rice (Oryza sativa) leaf surface, a single round of mitosis always occurs in the germ tube. We found that initiation of infection structure development is regulated by a DNA replication-dependent checkpoint. Genetic intervention in DNA synthesis, by conditional mutation of the Never-in-Mitosis 1 gene, prevented germ tubes from developing nascent infection structures. Cellular differentiation of appressoria, however, required entry into mitosis because nimA temperature-sensitive mutants, blocked at mitotic entry, were unable to develop functional appressoria. Arresting the cell cycle after mitotic entry, by conditional inactivation of the Blocked-in-Mitosis 1 gene or expression of stabilized cyclinB-encoding alleles, did not impair appressorium differentiation, but instead prevented these cells from invading plant tissue. When considered together, these data suggest that appressorium-mediated plant infection is coordinated by three distinct cell cycle checkpoints that are necessary for establishment of plant disease.
20191329	Neonatal hypoxic-ischemic (HI) encephalopathy can lead to severe brain damage, and is a common cause of neurological handicaps in adulthood. HI can be resolved by the administration of an antioxidant such as 3-methyl-1-phenyl-2-pyrazolin-5-one (MCI-186). In the present study, we performed comprehensive gene expression and gene network analyses using a DNA microarray to elucidate the molecular events responsible for the selective vulnerability of neurons in neonatal HI brain insult and to examine the underlying mechanisms of the effect of MCI-186 on the pathophysiological events in this condition. We used the modified Levine method (Rice model), which has been widely used as an animal model of this condition. A large difference in gene expression was observed between the Rice model and the control group. Up- and downregulated genes after the HI brain insult were mainly related to immune responses and cell death, and neuronal activity, respectively. The effect of MCI-186 administration on gene expression was much less than and contrary to that of the HI brain insult, reflecting the protective effect of MCI-186 in HI brain insult.
20192735	Arsenic (As) is an environmental and food chain contaminant. Excessive accumulation of As, particularly inorganic arsenic (As(i)), in rice (Oryza sativa) poses a potential health risk to populations with high rice consumption. Rice is efficient at As accumulation owing to flooded paddy cultivation that leads to arsenite mobilization, and the inadvertent yet efficient uptake of arsenite through the silicon transport pathway. Iron, phosphorus, sulfur, and silicon interact strongly with As during its route from soil to plants. Plants take up arsenate through the phosphate transporters, and arsenite and undissociated methylated As species through the nodulin 26-like intrinsic (NIP) aquaporin channels. Arsenate is readily reduced to arsenite in planta, which is detoxified by complexation with thiol-rich peptides such as phytochelatins and/or vacuolar sequestration. A range of mitigation methods, from agronomic measures and plant breeding to genetic modification, may be employed to reduce As uptake by food crops.
20192739	Grain yield in rice is a complex trait multiplicatively determined by its three component traits: number of panicles, number of grains per panicle, and grain weight; all of which are typical quantitative traits. The developments in genome mapping, sequencing, and functional genomic research have provided powerful tools for investigating the genetic and molecular bases of these quantitative traits. Dissection of the genetic bases of the yield traits based on molecular marker linkage maps resolved hundreds of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for these traits. Mutant analyses and map-based cloning of QTLs have identified a large number of genes required for the basic processes underlying the initiation and development of tillers and panicles, as well as genes controlling numbers and sizes of grains and panicles. Molecular characterization of these genes has greatly advanced the mechanistic understanding of the regulation of these rice yield traits. These findings have significant implications in crop genetic improvement.
20192747	Histone methylation plays a fundamental role in regulating diverse developmental processes and is also involved in silencing repetitive sequences in order to maintain genome stability. The methylation marks are written on lysine or arginine by distinct enzymes, namely, histone lysine methyltransferases (HKMTs) or protein arginine methyltransferases (PRMTs). Once established, the methylation marks are specifically recognized by the proteins that act as readers and are interpreted into specific biological outcomes. Histone methylation status is dynamic; methylation marks can be removed by eraser enzymes, the histone demethylases (HDMs). The proteins responsible for writing, reading, and erasing the methylation marks are known mostly in animals. During the past several years, a growing body of literature has demonstrated the impact of histone methylation on genome management, transcriptional regulation, and development in plants. The aim of this review is to summarize the biochemical, genetic, and molecular action of histone methylation in two plants, the dicot Arabidopsis and the monocot rice.
20192824	Magnaporthe oryzae starts its infection by the attachment of pyriform conidia on rice tissues, and severity of the disease epidemic is proportional to the quantity of conidia produced in the rice blast lesions. However, the mechanism of conidial production is not well understood. Homeodomain proteins play critical roles in regulating various growth and developmental processes in fungi and other eukaryotes. Through targeted gene replacement, we find that deletion of HTF1, one of seven homeobox genes in the fungal genome, does not affect mycelial growth but causes total defect of conidial production. Further observation revealed that the Deltahtf1 mutant produces significantly more conidiophores, which curve slightly near the tip but could not develop sterigmata-like structures. Although the Deltahtf1 mutant fails to form conidia, it could still develop melanized appressoria from hyphal tips and infect plants. The expression level of HTF1 is significantly reduced in the Deltamgb1 G-beta and DeltacpkA deletion mutant, and the ACR1 but not CON7 gene that encodes transcription factor required for normal conidiogenesis is significantly downregulated in the Deltahtf1 mutant. These data suggest that the HTF1 gene is essential for conidiogenesis, and may be functionally related to the trimeric G-protein signaling and other transcriptional regulators that are known to be important for conidiation in M. oryzae.
20193092	The application of hybrid rice technology has significantly increased global rice production during the last three decades. Approximately 90% of the commercially cultivated rice hybrids have been derived through three-line breeding involving the use of WA-CMS lines. It is believed that during the 21st century, hybrid rice technology will make significant contributions to ensure global food security. This study examined the poorly understood molecular basis of the WA-CMS system in rice. RFLPs were detected for atp6 and orfB genes in sterile and fertile rice lines, with one copy of each in the mt-genome. The RNA profile was identical in both lines for atp6, but an additional longer orfB transcript was identified in sterile lines. 5' RACE analysis of the long orfB transcript revealed it was 370 bp longer than the normal transcript, with no indication it was chimeric when compared to the genomic DNA sequence. cDNA clones of the longer orfB transcript in sterile lines were sequenced and the transcript was determined unedited. Sterile lines were crossed with the restorer and maintainer lines, and fertile and sterile F1 hybrids were respectively generated. Both hybrids contained two types of orfB transcripts. However, the long transcript underwent editing in the fertile F1 hybrids and remained unedited in the sterile lines. Additionally, the editing of the 1.1 kb orfB transcript co-segregated with fertility restoring alleles in a segregating population of F2 progeny; and the presence of unedited long orfB transcripts was detected in the sterile plants from the F2 segregating population. This study helped to assign plausible operative factors responsible for male-sterility in the WA cytoplasm of rice. A new point of departure to dissect the mechanisms governing the CMS-WA system in rice has been identified, which can be applied to further harness the opportunities afforded by hybrid vigor in rice.
20193128	Modification of proteins by the reversible covalent addition of the small ubiquitin like modifier (SUMO) protein has important consequences affecting target protein stability, sub-cellular localization, and protein-protein interactions. SUMOylation involves a cascade of enzymatic reactions, which resembles the process of ubiquitination. In this study, we characterized the SUMOylation system from an important crop plant, rice, and show that it responds to cold, salt and ABA stress conditions on a protein level via the accumulation of SUMOylated proteins. We also characterized the transcriptional regulation of individual SUMOylation cascade components during stress and development. During stress conditions, majority of the SUMO cascade components are transcriptionally down regulated. SUMO conjugate proteins and SUMO cascade component transcripts accumulated differentially in various tissues during plant development with highest levels in reproductive tissues. Taken together, these data suggest a role for SUMOylation in rice development and stress responses.
20194069	Dietary exposure from food to toxic inorganic arsenic (iAs) in the general U.S. population has not been well studied. The goal of this research was to quantify dietary As exposure and analyze the major contributors to total As (tAs) and iAs. Another objective was to compare model predictions with observed data. Probabilistic exposure modeling for dietary As was conducted with the Stochastic Human Exposure and Dose Simulation Dietary (SHEDS-Dietary) model, based on data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey. The dose modeling was conducted by combining the SHEDS-Dietary model with the MENTOR-3P (Modeling ENvironment for TOtal Risk with Physiologically Based Pharmacokinetic Modeling for Populations) system. Model evaluation was conducted via comparing exposure and dose-modeling predictions against duplicate diet data and biomarker measurements, respectively, for the same individuals. The mean modeled tAs exposure from food is 0.38 microg/kg/day, which is approximately 14 times higher than the mean As exposures from the drinking water. The mean iAs exposure from food is 0.05 microg/kg/day (1.96 microg/day), which is approximately two times higher than the mean iAs exposures from the drinking water. The modeled exposure and dose estimates matched well with the duplicate diet data and measured As biomarkers. The major food contributors to iAs exposure were the following: vegetables (24%); fruit juices and fruits (18%); rice (17%); beer and wine (12%); and flour, corn, and wheat (11%). Approximately 10% of tAs exposure from foods is the toxic iAs form. The general U.S. population may be exposed to tAs and iAs more from eating some foods than from drinking water. In addition, this model evaluation effort provides more confidence in the exposure assessment tools used.
20194285	Bacillus cereus is recognized as a major pathogenic bacterium that causes food poisoning and produces gastrointestinal diseases of 2 types: emetic and diarrheal. The emetic type, which is often linked to pasta and rice, arises from a preformed toxin, cereulide, in food. Rapid and accurate diagnostic methods for this emetic toxin are important but are limited. Here we describe 3 patients with B cereus food poisoning in which cereulide was detected and measured sequentially. Three family members began to vomit frequently 30 minutes after consuming reheated fried rice. After 6 hours, a 1-year-old brother died of acute encephalopathy. A 2-year-old sister who presented with unconsciousness recovered rapidly after plasma exchange and subsequent hemodialysis. Their mother recovered soon by fluid therapy. From leftover fried rice and the children's stomach contents, B cereus was isolated. Serum cereulide was detected in both children; it decreased to an undetected level in the sister. These cases highlight the importance of measuring the value of cereulide, which would reflect the severity of B cereus emetic food poisoning. The cases also suggest the possible role of blood-purification therapy in severe cases.
20194759	Phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) is a key enzyme of primary metabolism in bacteria, algae, and vascular plants, and is believed to be cytosolic. Here we show that rice (Oryza sativa L.) has a plant-type PEPC, Osppc4, that is targeted to the chloroplast. Osppc4 was expressed in all organs tested and showed high expression in the leaves. Its expression in the leaves was confined to mesophyll cells, and Osppc4 accounted for approximately one-third of total PEPC protein in the leaf blade. Recombinant Osppc4 was active in the PEPC reaction, showing V(max) comparable to cytosolic isozymes. Knockdown of Osppc4 expression by the RNAi technique resulted in stunting at the vegetative stage, which was much more marked when rice plants were grown with ammonium than with nitrate as the nitrogen source. Comparison of leaf metabolomes of ammonium-grown plants suggested that the knockdown suppressed ammonium assimilation and subsequent amino acid synthesis by reducing levels of organic acids, which are carbon skeleton donors for these processes. We also identified the chloroplastic PEPC gene in other Oryza species, all of which are adapted to waterlogged soil where the major nitrogen source is ammonium. This suggests that, in addition to glycolysis, the genus Oryza has a unique route to provide organic acids for ammonium assimilation that involves a chloroplastic PEPC, and that this route is crucial for growth with ammonium. This work provides evidence for diversity of primary ammonium assimilation in the leaves of vascular plants.
20194922	Oxalate is widely distributed in the plant kingdom. While excess oxalate in food crops is detrimental to animal and human health, it may play various functional roles in plants, particularly for coping with environmental stresses. Understanding its biosynthetic mechanism in plants, therefore, becomes increasingly important both theoretically and practically. However, it is still a matter of debate as to what precursor and pathway are ultimately used for oxalate biosynthesis in plants. In this study, both physiological and molecular approaches were applied to address these questions. First, it was observed that when glycolate or glyoxylate was fed into detached leaves, both organic acids were equally effective in stimulating oxalate accumulation. In addition, the stimulation could be completely inhibited by cysteine, a glyoxylate scavenger that forms cysteine-glyoxylate adducts. To verify the role of glyoxylate further, various transgenic plants were generated, in which several genes involved in glyoxylate metabolism [i.e. SGAT (serine-glyoxylate aminotransferase), GGAT (glutamate-glyoxylate aminotransferase), HPR (hydroxypyruvate reductase), ICL (isocitrate lyase)], were transcriptionally regulated through RNAi or over-expression. Analyses on these transgenic plants consistently revealed that glyoxylate acted as an efficient precursor for oxalate biosynthesis in rice. Unexpectedly, it was found that oxalate accumulation was not correlated with photorespiration, even though this pathway is known to be a major source of glyoxylate. Further, when GLDH (L-galactono-1,4-lactone dehydrogenase), a key enzyme gene for ascorbate biosynthesis, was down-regulated, the oxalate abundance remained constant, despite ascorbate having been largely reduced as expected in these transgenic plants. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that glyoxylate rather than ascorbate is an efficient precursor for oxalate biosynthesis, and that oxalate accumulation and regulation do not necessarily depend on photorespiration, possibly due to the occurrence of the anaplerotic reaction that may compensate for glyoxylate formation in rice.
20194924	Strigolactones are considered a new group of plant hormones. Their role as modulators of plant growth and signalling molecules for plant interactions first became evident in Arabidopsis, pea, and rice mutants that were flawed in strigolactone production, release, or perception. The first evidence in tomato (Solanum lycopersicon) of strigolactone deficiency is presented here. Sl-ORT1, previously identified as resistant to the parasitic plant Orobanche, had lower levels of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungus (Glomus intraradices) colonization, possibly as a result of its reduced ability to induce mycorrhizal hyphal branching. Biochemical analysis of mutant root extracts suggested that it produces only minute amounts of two of the tomato strigolactones: solanacol and didehydro-orobanchol. Accordingly, the transcription level of a key enzyme (CCD7) putatively involved in strigolactone synthesis in tomato was reduced in Sl-ORT1 compared with the wild type (WT). Sl-ORT1 shoots exhibited increased lateral shoot branching, whereas exogenous application of the synthetic strigolactone GR24 to the mutant restored the WT phenotype by reducing the number of lateral branches. Reduced lateral shoot branching was also evident in grafted plants which included a WT interstock, which was grafted between the mutant rootstock and the scion. In roots of these grafted plants, the CCD7 transcription level was not significantly induced, nor was mycorrhizal sensitivity restored. Hence, WT-interstock grafting, which restores mutant shoot morphology to WT, does not restore mutant root properties to WT. Characterization of the first tomato strigolactone-deficient mutant supports the putative general role of strigolactones as messengers of suppression of lateral shoot branching in a diversity of plant species.
20194927	Temperature fluctuates rapidly and affects all developmental and metabolic processes. This often obscures the effects of developmental trends or of other environmental conditions when temperature fluctuates naturally. A method is proposed for modelling temperature-compensated rates, based on the coordination of temperature responses of developmental processes. In a data set comprising 41 experiments in the greenhouse, growth chamber, or the field, the temperature responses in the range of 6-36 degrees C for different processes were compared in three species, maize, rice, and Arabidopsis thaliana. Germination, cell division, expansive growth rate, leaf initiation, and phenology showed coordinated temperature responses and followed common laws within each species. The activities of 10 enzymes involved in carbon metabolism exhibited monotonous exponential responses across the whole range 10-40 degrees C. Hence, the temperature dependence of developmental processes is not explained by a simple relationship to central metabolism. Temperature-compensated rates of development were calculated from the equations of response curve, by expressing rates per unit equivalent time at 20 degrees C. This resulted in stable rates when temperatures fluctuated over a large range (for which classical thermal time was inefficient), and in time courses of leaf development which were common to several experiments with different temperature scenarios.
2019499	In order to obtain the biological half-life (Tb) of iodine deposited on rough rice grains, rice plants of four different growing stages--heading, milky, dough, and yellow ripe--were exposed to elemental gaseous iodine. After the exposure, the rough rice samples were collected at different intervals and analyzed for iodine to estimate the value of Tb. The average value of Tb obtained by the experiments at the dough and yellow ripe stages was about 200 d. This value is considerably larger than those for pasture grass and leafy vegetables.
20195524	The PEX11 family of peroxisome membrane proteins have been shown to be involved in regulation of peroxisome size and number in plant, animals, and yeast cells. We and others have previously suggested that peroxisome proliferation as a result of abiotic stress may be important in plant stress responses, and recently it was reported that several rice PEX11 genes were up regulated in response to abiotic stress. We sought to test the hypothesis that promoting peroxisome proliferation in Arabidopsis thaliana by over expression of one PEX11 family member, PEX11e, would give increased resistance to salt stress. We could demonstrate up regulation of PEX11e by salt stress and increased peroxisome number by both PEX11e over expression and salt stress, however our experiments failed to find a correlation between PEX11e over expression and increased peroxisome metabolic activity or resistance to salt stress. This suggests that although peroxisome proliferation may be a consequence of salt stress, it does not affect the ability of Arabidopsis plants to tolerate saline conditions.
20195612	BT-type cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) in rice is associated with accumulation of unprocessed dicistronic RNA containing a duplicated atp6 (B-atp6) and an unusual open reading frame, orf79, encoding a cytotoxic peptide in mitochondria. The male-sterile state of BT-type CMS is stably maintained by backcrossing the plants with line Taichung 65 (T65) that has no restorer gene and is completely suppressed by the presence of the Rf1 gene through the processing of B-atp6-orf79 RNA. A variant of the T65 line, T65(T), has a weak restoration function conferred by the Ifr1 gene, which is genetically independent of the Rf1 gene. However, not much is known about the mechanism(s). In a study to examine whether the mechanism involved in fertility restoration by Ifr1 is analogous to restoration mediated by Rf1, the transcript profile of B-atp6-orf79 in male-sterile plants was compared with that in fertility restored plants obtained by crossing male-sterile plants with T65(T). The cellular level of unprocessed B-atp6-orf79 RNA was reduced in the restored plants, but no change in processing efficiency or the quantity of B-atp6-orf79 DNA was detected. These results suggest that Ifr1 restores fertility through reducing either the transcription rate of B-atp6-orf79 or the stability of its primary transcripts, a mechanism distinct from that involved in fertility restoration of BT-type CMS by Rf1.
20195770	Trichoderma asperellum, a filamentous soil fungus, is an effective biocontrol agent against many fungal plant pathogenic species. In the present study, we investigated the biological control properties of the strain T. asperellum T4. T. asperellum fermentation products significantly decreased the ability of Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotinia sclerotiorum to infect rice and soybean, respectively. To further elucidate the biocontrol mechanisms of T. asperellum at the molecular level, a cDNA library was constructed from its mycelium. In total, 3114 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) were generated, which represented 1,554 unigenes, including 354 contigs and 1,200 singletons. Among these unigenes, 731 represented known genes while 823 were novel genes. Forty-six unigenes potentially involved in biocontrol processes were identified from the EST collection. Among them, the expressions of 16 genes were studied, and 15 genes were highly differentially regulated during confrontation with 2 phytopathogens, suggesting that they play roles in the T. asperellum response to phytopathogens. Our study may provide helpful insight in the mechanism of biocontrol by T. asperellum T4 against plant pathogens.
20195920	Recent publications in Japan suggest that Cd in river beds and locally harvested rice tend to be higher in seven prefectures in the north-eastern part on the coast of the Sea of Japan (the high-Cd zone). The present study was initiated to investigate the current level of exposure to Cd and possible health effects among local populations in the zone. Thus, levels of Cd and three tubular dysfunction markers [i.e., α(1)-MG, β(2)-MG, and N-acetyl-β-D-glucosaminidase (NAG)] were examined in urine of local residents (700 and 704 adult women, respectively) in two prefectures (prefecture 1 and prefecture 7), which were located in the north-east (prefecture 1) and south-west ends (prefecture 7) of the high-Cd zone. Urinary Cd levels [e.g., 0.99 and 0.78 μg/l as geometric mean (GM) for observed (non-corrected) values, respectively] in prefecture 1 and prefecture 7 were comparable to the levels in other parts of Japan (All Japan-A; 0.99 μg/l). Correspondingly, GM values for α(1)-MG (2.29 and 1.99 mg/l vs. 2.17 mg/l for All Japan-A) and for β(2)-MG (87 and 80 μg/l vs. 99 μg/l for All Japan-A) were not elevated, and NAG also stayed unchanged (2.89 and 2.87 units/l for prefecture 1 and prefecture 7, respectively). Evaluation in combination with the findings in other five prefectures in the zone suggests that Cd exposure is equal to the national average both in prefecture 1 and in prefecture 7, whereas Cd exposure appeared to be elevated in the central part of the zone. The observation appears to be on line with geographical location of the two prefectures that they are on the two ends of the zone of high natural Cd background.
20196894	As an emerging powerful approach for mapping quantitative trait loci (QTLs) responsible for dynamic traits, functional mapping models the time-dependent mean vector with biologically meaningful equations and are likely to generate biologically relevant and interpretable results. Given the autocorrelation nature of a dynamic trait, functional mapping needs the implementation of the models for the structure of the covariance matrix. In this article, we have provided a comprehensive set of approaches for modelling the covariance structure and incorporated each of these approaches into the framework of functional mapping. The Bayesian information criterion (BIC) values are used as a model selection criterion to choose the optimal combination of the submodels for the mean vector and covariance structure. In an example for leaf age growth from a rice molecular genetic project, the best submodel combination was found between the Gaussian model for the correlation structure, power equation of order 1 for the variance and the power curve for the mean vector. Under this combination, several significant QTLs for leaf age growth trajectories were detected on different chromosomes. Our model can be well used to study the genetic architecture of dynamic traits of agricultural values.
20197292	Under conditions of low iron availability, rice plants induce genes involved in iron uptake and utilization. The iron deficiency-responsive cis-acting element binding factors 1 and 2 (IDEF1 and IDEF2) regulate transcriptional response to iron deficiency in rice roots. Clarification of the functions of IDEF1 and IDEF2 could uncover the gene regulation mechanism. Spatial patterns of IDEF1 and IDEF2 expression were analysed by histochemical staining of IDEF1 and IDEF2 promoter-GUS transgenic rice lines. Expression patterns of the target genes of IDEF1 and IDEF2 were analysed using transformants with induced or repressed expression of IDEF1 or IDEF2 grown in iron-rich or in iron-deficient solutions for 1 d. IDEF1 and IDEF2 were highly expressed in the basal parts of the lateral roots and vascular bundles. IDEF1 and IDEF2 expression was dominant in leaf mesophyll and vascular cells, respectively. These expression patterns were similar under both iron-deficient and iron-sufficient conditions. IDEF1 was strongly expressed in pollen, ovaries, the aleurone layer and embryo. IDEF2 was expressed in pollen, ovaries and the dorsal vascular region of the endosperm. During seed germination, IDEF1 and IDEF2 were expressed in the endosperm and embryo. Expression of IDEF1 target genes was regulated in iron-rich roots similar to early iron-deficiency stages. In addition, the expression patterns of IDEF2 target genes were similar between iron-rich conditions and early or subsequent iron deficiency. IDEF1 and IDEF2 are constitutively expressed during both vegetative and reproductive stages. The spatial expression patterns of IDEF1 and IDEF2 overlap with their target genes in restricted cell types, but not in all cells. The spatial expression patterns and gene regulation of IDEF1 and IDEF2 in roots are generally conserved under conditions of iron sufficiency and deficiency, suggesting complicated interactions with unknown factors for sensing and transmitting iron-deficiency signals.
20198213	This study aimed to define a one portion size of food items frequently consumed for convenient use by Koreans in food selection, diet planning, and nutritional evaluation. We analyzed using the original data on 5,436 persons (60.87%) aged 20 ~ 64 years among 8,930 persons to whom NHANES 2005 and selected food items consumed by the intake frequency of 30 or higher among the 500 most frequently consumed food items. A total of 374 varieties of food items of regular use were selected. And the portion size of food items was set on the basis of the median (50th percentile) of the portion size for a single intake by a single person was analyzed. In cereals, the portion size of well polished rice was 80 g. In meats, the portion size of Korean beef cattle was 25 g. Among vegetable items, the portion size of Baechukimchi was 40 g. The portion size of the food items of regular use set in this study will be conveniently and effectively used by general consumers in selecting food items for a nutritionally balanced diet. In addition, these will be used as the basic data in setting the serving size in meal planning.
20198303	Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common health issue that is characterized by abdominal pain, abnormal bowel movements, altered visceral perception, and abnormal metabolism of 5-hydroxy triptamine (serotonin; 5HT). The use of prebiotics or probiotics treatment for IBS has become increasingly important as an adjunct to pharmaceutical options. The aim of this study was to determine the efficacy of enzyme-treated rice fiber (ERF) on an IBS model. We obtained a new prebiotic from defatted rice bran that was developed as an insoluble dietary fiber through amylase and hemicellulase treatment followed by removal of the soluble fraction. Containing approximately 70% hemicellulose, ERF is utilized by lactobacilli and subsequently converted to butyrate using Eubacterium limosum. We employed a restraint stress IBS model which involved the continuous application of stress for 4 h per day for 3 days. Polycarbophil Ca (PC) (500 mg/kg body weight) was used as a positive control and ERF was added to the diet at 4% in diet. During restraint stress, ERF significantly attenuated urgent fecal excretion, colonic mucosal 5HT secretion, and hyperalgesthesia compared with the control. ERF also significantly increased cecal butyrate production as well as total organic acid content. PC was only effective in regard to preventing increases in 5HT levels. Furthermore, there were no significant levels of pro-inflammatory markers CINC-1 and TNF-alpha among the groups. Although more detailed studies are needed, the ERF prebiotic demonstrated potency in attenuating major symptoms of IBS.
20198467	Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) is the most damaging rice-infecting virus in Africa. However, few sources of high resistance and only a single major resistance gene, RYMV1, are known to date. We screened a large representative collection of African cultivated rice (Oryza glaberrima) for RYMV resistance. Whereas high resistance is known to be very rare in Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa), we identified 29 (8%) highly resistant accessions in O. glaberrima. The MIF4G domain of RYMV1 was sequenced in these accessions. Some accessions possessed the rymv1-3 or rymv1-4 recessive resistance alleles previously described in O. glaberrima Tog5681 and Tog5672, respectively, and a new allele, rymv1-5, was identified, thereby increasing the number of resistance alleles in O. glaberrima to three. In contrast, only a single allele has been reported in O. sativa. Markers specific to the different alleles of the RYMV1 gene were developed for marker-assisted selection of resistant genotypes for disease management. In addition, the presence of the dominant susceptibility allele (Rymv1-1) in 15 resistant accessions suggests that their resistance is under different genetic control. An allelism test involving one of those accessions revealed a second major resistance gene, i.e., RYMV2. The diversity of resistance genes against RYMV in O. glaberrima species is discussed in relation to the diversification of the virus in Africa.
20198468	Plant genetic diversity has been mainly investigated with neutral markers, but large-scale DNA sequencing projects now enable the identification and analysis of different classes of genetic polymorphisms, such as non-synonymous single nucleotide polymorphisms (nsSNPs) in protein coding sequences. Using the SIFT and MAPP programs to predict whether nsSNPs are tolerated (i.e., effectively neutral) or deleterious for protein function, genome-wide nsSNP data from Arabidopsis thaliana and rice were analyzed. In both species, about 20% of polymorphic sites with nsSNPs were classified as deleterious; they segregate at lower allele frequencies than tolerated nsSNPs due to purifying selection. Furthermore, A. thaliana accessions from marginal populations show a higher relative proportion of deleterious nsSNPs, which likely reflects differential selection or demographic effects in subpopulations. To evaluate the sensitivity of predictions, genes from model and crop plants with known functional effects of nsSNPs were inferred with the algorithms. The programs predicted about 70% of nsSNPs correctly as tolerated or deleterious, i.e., as having a functional effect. Forward-in-time simulations of bottleneck and domestication models indicated a high power to detect demographic effects on nsSNP frequencies in sufficiently large datasets. The results indicate that nsSNPs are useful markers for analyzing genetic diversity in plant genetic resources and breeding populations to infer natural/artificial selection and genetic drift.
2019877	Colectomized rats were used to compare the bioavailability of starch from canned peas, kidney beans, lima beans, corn, cooked rice and AIN-76A purified diet. Postoperative weight gains of colectomized and sham-operated rats were not different. Test meals of approximately 2 and approximately 3.3 g (dry weight) of each food containing chromic oxide (0.6 g/100 g) were administered to 4-6 rats by gastric intubation. Chromium recovery in ileal digesta 10 h after the meal ranged from 94 to 102%. Significant starch (11-15%) from peas, lima beans or kidney beans was recovered in the ileal digesta; 0.2-0.4% of starch from rice, corn or AIN-76A was in the ileal digesta. Pretreatment of kidney or lima beans with a heat-stable endo-alpha-amylase decreased the starch recovered in the ileal digesta to 2.7-4.3% of that fed; pretreatment with the amylase and pepsin had no further effect. Oligosaccharide extraction, the size of the test meal and the amount of starch did not affect starch bioavailability.
20198974	Studies of phenotypical expression of synaptic mutations in combination with the localization of corresponding genes on a genetic map permit individual stages of the meiotic process to be differentiated. Two rye asynaptic genes, sy1 and sy9, were mapped with the use of microsatellite markers (SSR) in the pericentromeric regions of the long chromosome arms 7R and 2R, respectively. The sy9 gene cosegregated with two SSR markers Xscm43 and Xgwm132. The asynaptic gene sy1 was mapped within the interval between the isozyme locus Aat2 and two cosegregating loci Xrems1188 and Xrems1135 that are located at a distance of 0.4 cM proximally and 0.1 cM distally with respect to the gene lous. Possible evolutionary relationships of the mapped genes with homeological loci of the Triticeae species and more distant cereal species, such as maize and rice, are discussed.
20199866	Two benzenoid esters, methyl salicylate (MeSA) and methyl benzoate (MeBA), were detected from insect-damaged rice plants. By correlating metabolite production with gene expression analysis, five candidate genes encoding putative carboxyl methyltransferases were identified. Enzymatic assays with Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant proteins demonstrated that only one of the five candidates, OsBSMT1, has salicylic acid (SA) methyltransferase (SAMT) and benzoic acid (BA) methyltransferase (BAMT) activities for producing MeSA and MeBA, respectively. Whereas OsBSMT1 is phylogenetically relatively distant from dicot SAMTs, the three-dimensional structure of OsBSMT1, which was determined using homology-based structural modeling, is highly similar to those of characterized SAMTs. Analyses of OsBSMT1 expression in wild-type rice plants under various stress conditions indicate that the jasmonic acid (JA) signaling pathway plays a critical role in regulating the production and emission of MeSA in rice. Further analysis using transgenic rice plants overexpressing NH1, a key component of the SA signaling pathway in rice, suggests that the SA signaling pathway also plays an important role in governing OsBSMT1 expression and emission of its products, probably through a crosstalk with the JA signaling pathway. The role of the volatile products of OsBSMT1, MeSA and MeBA, in rice defense against insect herbivory is discussed.
20199923	Synthetic magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is an approach suggested in the literature to predict MR images at different design parameter settings from at least three observed MR scans. However, performance is poor when no regularization is used in the estimation and otherwise computationally impractical to implement for 3-D imaging methods. We propose a method which accounts for spatial context in MR images by the imposition of a Gaussian Markov random field (MRF) structure on a transformation of the spin-lattice relaxation time, the spin-spin relaxation time and the proton density at each voxel. The MRF structure is specified through a matrix normal distribution. We also model the observed magnitude images using the more accurate but computationally challenging Rice distribution. A one-step-late expectation-maximization approach is adopted to make our approach computationally practical. We evaluate predictive performance in generating synthetic MR images in a clinical setting: our results indicate that our suggested approach is not only computationally feasible to implement but also shows excellent performance.
20201001	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. Oryzae Ishiyama, a causal agent of rice bacterial leaf blight, was found to be sensitive in vitro to the systemic fungicide amicarthiazol (2-amino-4-methylthiazole -5-carboxanilide), which is a potent inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH, EC 1.3.99.1). This paper aimed to determine the molecular resistance mechanism of X. oryzae pv. oryzae to amicarthiazol. UV-induced resistant mutants of X. oryzae pv. oryzae to amicarthiazol were isolated. The activity of SDH in wild-type X. oryzae pv. oryzae was strongly inhibited by amicarthiazol, while that in resistant mutants was insensitive, although their SDH activity was decreased compared with the wild-type sensitive strain without amicarthiazol. A mutation of Histidine(229) (CAC) to Tyrosine(229) (TAC) was identified in sdhB, which encoded the iron-sulfur protein subunit of SDH. The sdhB from the mutant was ligated into a cosmid, pUFR034, to generate pUFR034RAX, which conferred resistance to amicarthiazol when transformed into the wild-type sensitive strain. A mutation of His(229) (CAC) to Tyr(229) (TAC) in SdhB was responsible for determining amicarthiazol resistance. .
20202129	In Arabidopsis, the compartmentation of sugars into vacuoles is known to be facilitated by sugar transporters. However, vacuolar sugar transporters have not been studied in detail in other plant species. To characterize the rice (Oryza sativa) tonoplast monosaccharide transporters, OsTMT1 and OsTMT2, we analysed their subcellular localization using green fluorescent protein (GFP) and expression patterns using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), performed histochemical beta-glucuronidase (GUS) assay and in situ hybridization analysis, and assessed sugar transport ability using isolated vacuoles. Expression of OsTMT-GFP fusion protein in rice and Arabidopsis revealed that the OsTMTs localize at the tonoplast. Analyses of OsTMT promoter-GUS transgenic rice indicated that OsTMT1 and OsTMT2 are highly expressed in bundle sheath cells, and in vascular parenchyma and companion cells in leaves, respectively. Both genes were found to be preferentially expressed in the vascular tissues of roots, the palea/lemma of spikelets, and in the main vascular tissues and nucellar projections on the dorsal side of the seed coats. Glucose uptake studies using vacuoles isolated from transgenic mutant Arabidopsis (tmt1-2-3) expressing OsTMT1 demonstrated that OsTMTs are capable of transporting glucose into vacuoles. Based on expression analysis and functional characterization, our present findings suggest that the OsTMTs play a role in vacuolar glucose storage in rice.
20202171	The zebra-necrosis (zn) mutant of rice (Oryza sativa) produces transversely green/yellow-striped leaves. The mutant phenotype is formed by unequal impairment of chloroplast biogenesis before emergence from the leaf sheath under alternate light/dark or high/low temperatures (restrictive), but not under constant light and temperature (permissive) conditions. Map-based cloning revealed that ZN encodes a thylakoid-bound protein of unknown function. Virus-induced gene silencing of a ZN homolog in Nicotiana benthamiana causes leaf variegation with sporadic green/yellow sectors, indicating that ZN is essential for chloroplast biogenesis during early leaf development. Necrotic lesions often occur in the yellow sectors as a result of an excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The phenotypic severity (leaf variegation and necrosis) and ROS levels are positively correlated with an increase in light intensity under restrictive conditions. In the mutant leaves, chlorophyll (Chl) metabolism, ROS scavenging activities, maximum quantum yield of photosystem II (PSII), and structures and functions of the photosynthetic complexes are normal in the Chl-containing cells, suggesting that ROS are mainly generated from the defective plastids of the Chl-free cells. The PSII activity of normal chloroplasts is hypersensitive to photoinhibition because the recovery rates of PSII are much slower. In the PSII repair, the degradation of damaged D1 is not impaired, suggesting a reduced activity of new D1 synthesis, possibly because of higher levels of ROS generated from the Chl-free cells by excess light. Together, we propose that ZN is required for protecting developing chloroplasts, especially during the assembly of thylakoid protein complexes, from incidental light after darkness.
20202174	MicroRNA (miRNA)-guided target RNA expression is vital for a wide variety of biological processes in eukaryotes. Currently, miRBase (version 13) lists 142 and 353 miRNAs from Arabidopsis and rice (Oryza sativa), respectively. The integration of miRNAs in diverse biological networks relies upon the confirmation of their RNA targets. In contrast with the well-characterized miRNA targets that are cleaved in Arabidopsis, only a few such targets have been confirmed in rice. To identify small RNA targets in rice, we applied the 'degradome sequencing' approach, which globally identifies the remnants of small RNA-directed target cleavage by sequencing the 5' ends of uncapped RNAs. One hundred and sixty targets of 53 miRNA families (24 conserved and 29 rice-specific) and five targets of TAS3-small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) were identified. Surprisingly, an additional conserved target for miR398, which has not been reported so far, has been validated. Besides conserved homologous transcripts, 23 non-conserved genes for nine conserved miRNAs and 56 genes for 29 rice-specific miRNAs were also identified as targets. Besides miRNA targets, the rice degradome contained fragments derived from MIRNA precursors. A closer inspection of these fragments revealed a unique pattern distinct from siRNA-producing loci. This attribute can serve as one of the ancillary criteria for separating miRNAs from siRNAs in plants.
20202333	Electrolyzed oxidizing water (EOW) has been regarded as a potential environmentally friendly broad spectrum microbial decontaminant. EOW with a pH of 3.0 and oxidation reduction potential of 1,079.0 mV were generated by the electrolysis of a dilute NaCl solution (20 mM) in an electrochemical cell. The effects of EOW, 1% NaClO solution, and alkaline electrolyzed water on controlling microbial growth, germination ratio, and enrichment of gamma-aminobutyric acid in germinated brown rice (GBR) were evaluated in this study. Results show that EOW was the most effective at inhibiting microbial growth during germination. Rinsing the rice grains with EOW at 12-h intervals resulted in aerobic plate count reductions of 4.82 log CFU/g, while soaking resulted in bacterial count reductions of 5.38 log CFU/g after 72 h of germination. Moreover, EOW significantly enriched gamma-aminobutyric acid content in GBR (P < 0.05); content was increased 1.6 times in grain rinsed with EOW and 1.8 times in grain soaked in EOW. The findings indicate that EOW is a feasible disinfectant for industrial GBR production.
20202348	Salmonella contamination of pooled raw shelled egg mix (RSEM) used as an ingredient in lightly cooked or uncooked foods and high-risk kitchen hygiene practices in United Kingdom food service establishments using RSEM were investigated. Samples were collected from 934 premises. Salmonella was found in 1 (0.13%) of 764 RSEM samples, 2 (0.3%) of 726 samples from surfaces where ready-to-eat foods were prepared, and 7 (1.3%) of 550 cleaning cloths. Poor RSEM storage and handling practices were highlighted. Workers in 40% of the premises sampled failed to use designated utensils when RSEM was added to other ingredients, workers in 17% of the premises did not clean surfaces and utensils thoroughly after use with RSEM and before preparing other foods, only 42% of workers washed and dried their hands after handling eggs or RSEM, workers in 41% of the premises did not store RSEM at refrigeration temperature before use, and workers in 8% of the premises added RSEM to cooked rice at the end of cooking when preparing egg fried rice. Take-away premises, especially those serving Chinese cuisine, were least likely to have a documented food safety management system and awareness of the key food safety points concerning the use of RSEM compared with other food service premises (P < 0.0001). Food service businesses using RSEM must be aware of the continuing hazard from Salmonella, must adopt appropriate control measures, and must follow advice provided by national food agencies to reduce the risk of Salmonella infection.
20202825	In this study, the natural and modified rice husk were tested to remove Cd(II) ions from water. The modified rice husk was prepared by being treated with alkali. The results showed the Cd(II) adsorption capacity was 73.96, 125.94 mg/g, respectively, for the natural and modified rice husk. The modified rice husk had faster kinetics and higher adsorption capacities than the natural rice husk, which can be attributed to the surface structural changes of the material. Equilibrium adsorption data are more consistent with the Langmuir isotherm equation than with the Freundlich equation. The Cd(II) adsorption on the two adsorbents tends to increase with the increase of pH. The optimum pH for Cd(II) adsorption is 6.5. Both pseudo-first-order and pseudo-second-order equations were able to describe properly the kinetics of Cd(II) adsorption. The desorbability of Cd(II) is about 95.8-99.1% by 0.1M HCl solution.
20203238	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is one of the most ideal phenomena known in higher plants to describe the incompatibilities between mitochondrial-nuclear genomic interactions. To elucidate the dependency of pollen development on mitochondrial genotypes and cytoplasmic-nuclear genomic barriers, we employed five CMS isogenic lines of rice, CW-, W11-, LD-, BT- and WA-type CMS lines, that exhibit distinct pollen-defective phenotypes, and we characterized the CMS phenotypes and the nuclear gene expression patterns in conjunction with their mitochondrial genomic structures. These five CMS lines carried independent mitotypes, and W11, LD and BT mitochondrial genomes were relatively close with respect to their phylogeny. In anthers at the uninucleate microspore and bicellular pollen stages, 8,199 genes significantly changed their expression in at least one of the CMS lines. Common expression patterns were observed in BT, LD and W11 after k-means clustering. Among the genes encoding putative mitochondrial proteins, ALTERNATIVE OXIDASE 1A, a gene for the well-known mitochondrial stress marker, was included in the group ectopically up-regulated in anthers at the bicellular pollen stage of BT, LD and W11. Several other clusters were also regulated in a cytoplasm-specific manner during pollen development. These clear similarities in gene regulatory networks of BT-, LD- and W11-CMS lines indicate that the phylogenetic relationships of the mitochondrial genotypes are strongly correlated with nuclear gene expression patterns and pollen abortion phenotypes, providing evidence of the mitochondrial epistacy over the nuclear genome during pollen development.
20203239	Plant-specific Rac/Rop small GTPases function as molecular switches for numerous signal transduction events, including defense responses. To understand the function of each of the seven Rac/Rop family members in rice, we studied the tissue-specific expression patterns of Rac/Rop genes by semi-quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR), and also Rac/Rop subcellular localization using green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion proteins in transient expression systems. We also investigated the roles of these genes in disease resistance by testing single Rac/Rop-RNAi (RNA interference) plants against the rice blast pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. Our studies show that expression of OsRac2, 6 and 7 is very low in leaf blades, and reveal a strong correlation between the number of lysine and/or arginine (KR) residues in the polybasic region of Rac/Rop GTPases and their subcellular distribution in vivo. Infection assays showed that OsRac1 is a positive regulator of blast resistance, confirming previous observations, whereas OsRac4 and OsRac5 are negative regulators of blast resistance. OsRac6 may make minor contributions to disease resistance, while OsRac3 and OsRac7 are probably not involved in defense. Therefore, our study suggests that the rice Rac/Rop family plays multiple roles in diverse cellular activities and has both positive and negative functions in disease resistance.
2020346	The nature of renal hemodynamic response to a large carbohydrate-rich meal and the associated renal excretory functions were examined. Seven normal subjects were studied after ingestion of 300 g of rice meal. Five healthy men served as a time control. After eating the test meal, the mean creatinine clearance began to rise and became significantly higher in the 2nd hour compared with the control (118 +/- 7 vs. 91 +/- 3 ml/min/1.73 m2; p less than 0.01). Urinary excretion rates of sodium and chloride after the meal were significantly higher compared with those in the premeal period. Blood glucose concentrations rose significantly following the meal. The postprandial plasma levels of amino acids did not vary significantly compared with the premeal values. These results demonstrate that rice meal ingestion increased glomerular filtration rate via a mechanism(s) different from the protein-induced glomerular hyperfiltration.
20204451	We investigated the effects of hydrolyzed rice bran (HRB), an arabinoxylan extracted from rice bran, on mast cell degranulation and cytokine production. HRB was obtained by treating rice bran with an extract obtained from shiitake mushrooms. Bone marrow-derived mast cells (BMMCs) were prepared by culturing bone marrow cells from BALB/c mice in the presence of interleukin-3 and stem cell factor for 4 weeks. BMMCs were pretreated with HRB (0-3 mg/ml) for 30 min and were then antigen activated. Pretreatment of BMMCs with HRB significantly inhibited antigen-induced degranulation and cytokine production (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-4) in a dose-dependent manner. HRB also diminished membrane fusion between liposomes in which soluble N-ethyl maleimide-sensitive factor attachment protein receptors were reconstituted. Phosphorylation of RelA and mitogen-activated kinases after antigen stimulation was suppressed by pretreatment of BMMCs with HRB. These findings suggest that HRB may have an anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting mast cell degranulation and cytokine production.
20204871	In eukaryotes, RNA silencing encompasses a range of biochemical processes mediated by approximately 20-25 nt small RNAs (smRNAs). This chapter describes northern blot hybridization techniques optimized for detection of such smRNAs, whether extracted from plant or animal tissues. The basic protocol is described, and control blots illustrate the detection specificity and sensitivity of this method using DNA oligonucleotide probes. Known endogenous smRNAs are analyzed in samples prepared from several model plant species, including Arabidopsis thaliana, Nicotiana benthamiana, Oryza sativa, Zea mays, and Physcomitrella patens, as well as the animals Drosophila melanogaster and Mus musculus. Finally, the usefulness of northern blotting in dissecting smRNA biogenesis is shown for the particular case of DNA virus infection.
20205233	Fipronil is an insecticidal pyrazole that is commonly used as an insecticide in field crops, urban pesticide and veterinary medicine, but there are no reports of its evaluation against stored-product insects. Three series of laboratory bioassays were conducted to assess fipronil as a potential grain protectant against adults of Sitophilus oryzae (L.), Tribolium confusum Jacquelin du Val, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) and Prostephanus truncatus (Horn). Factors such as dose (0.01, 0.1, 1 and 10 mg fipronil kg(-1) grain), exposure interval (24 h, 48 h, 7 days and 14 days), temperature (20, 25 and 30 degrees C), relative humidity (RH; 55 and 65%) and commodity (wheat, maize, barley and paddy rice) were evaluated with regard to their impact on the insecticidal activity of fipronil. Progeny production was assessed after 64 days of exposure. At doses of < 1 mg fipronil kg(-1) grain, efficacy of fipronil was enhanced by an increase in temperature from 20 to 25 degrees C against S. oryzae or R. dominica for exposures of > 48 h and against T. confusum or P. truncatus for exposures of > 24 h. A further increase in temperature from 25 to 30 degrees C, although it enhanced efficacy at doses of < 1 mg fipronil kg(-1) grain against S. oryzae at all exposure intervals and against T. confusum after 7 days of exposure, it was negatively associated with efficacy against R. dominica or P. truncatus for exposures of > 24 h. By contrast, increase in RH did not have a significant impact on efficacy of fipronil. Although the performance of fipronil among the tested commodities was species dependent, this substance appeared to be less effective in paddy rice than in barley, maize and wheat. Regardless of the treated commodity, progeny production of all the tested species was almost suppressed with doses higher than 0.1 mg fipronil kg(-1) grain. Fipronil appeared to be a very effective alternative to the existing substances in stored-grain protection at doses equal to or higher than 1 mg fipronil kg(-1) grain, and thus these doses require further evaluation in terms of safety for the consumer and residues on stored products.
20205452	Amylopectin is the principal component of starch. The amylose extender (ae) gene encodes the starch-branching enzyme IIb, which is critical in determining the fine structure of endosperm starch. To determine the relationship between the fine structure of amylopectin and its physical properties, rice mutant lines defective in the ae function with altered fine structure of amylopectin and in combination with the waxy (wx) background were selected for comparative studies with primary wild-type and ae starches. The ae mutant endosperms accumulated a high amylose content starch with long amylopectin chains. The ae and wx ae starches showed no significant difference in the unit chain-length distribution of amylopectin and starch granule morphology. The wx ae starch displayed a higher pasting temperature and higher peak viscosity. The gelatinization peak temperatures of the wx, ae, and wx ae starches were 2.2, 13.1, and 17.1 degrees C higher, respectively, than that of the wild-type starch, and the wx ae starch showed a retrogradation peak with a shorter cooling period than that of ae starch. The raw ae and wx ae starches were almost indigestible by alpha-amylase in vitro. Rats fed the wx ae starch showed slowly increasing blood glucose at a lower level than the rats fed the wx or wild-type starch. These results indicate that the primary structure of the rice wx ae amylopectin with enriched long chains changes the granular structure of the starch, including its crystal structure, and results in resistance to in vitro or in vivo degradation.
20205798	Hyperlipidemia is prevalent and is highly associated with coronary heart disease. Some patients are reluctant or opt not to take lipid-lowering prescription medications for fear of adverse drug reactions. There are currently few well-designed randomized controlled trials showing the possibility of reducing cholesterol using red yeast rice. Meanwhile, adverse effects have also been reported. A 64-year-old Asian man was diagnosed with hyperlipidemia despite a healthy lifestyle. In addition to diet changes, the patient used red yeast rice and succeeded in lowering his level of serum lipids. Based on this case and a review of current literature, in addition to therapeutic lifestyle change, red yeast rice may be a useful alternative treatment for primary hyperlipidemia in patients with low cardiac risk and who refuse to take any lipid-lowering prescription medication or who maybe be statin intolerant.However, primary care physicians must be aware of the potential side effects of taking red yeast rice.
20206309	Rice straw was fermented by a wood-rot fungus Dichomitus squalens as a biological pretreatment, to increase the enzymatic digestibility of lignocellulose and promote cellulose hydrolysis. Response surface methodology was employed to optimize the fermentation medium of D. squalens for achieving the maximum volumetric activity of manganese peroxidase. The fermentation of rice straw by D. squalens for 15 days resulted in the enzymatic digestibility of 58.1% of theoretical glucose yield for the remaining glucan. In addition, a significant reduction in the crystallinity index and microstructural changes in the fermented rice straw were revealed. When the fungal-fermented rice straw was used as a substrate for ethanol production in simultaneous saccharification and fermentation, the ethanol production yield and productivity were 54.2% of the theoretical maximum and 0.39 g/L/hour, respectively, after 24 hours.
20207709	Echinochloa phyllopogon (late watergrass) is a major weed of California rice (Oryza sativa) that has evolved cytochrome P450-mediated metabolic resistance to different herbicides with multiple modes of action. E. phyllopogon populations from Sacramento Valley rice fields have also recently shown resistance to the herbicide clomazone. Clomazone is a proherbicide that must be metabolized to 5-ketoclomazone, which is the active compound that inhibits deoxyxylulose 5-phosphate synthase, a key enzyme of the nonmevalonate isoprenoid pathway. This study evaluated the differential clomazone metabolism within strains of the same species to investigate whether enhanced oxidative metabolism also confers clomazone resistance in E. phyllopogon. Using reverse-phase liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry techniques in the multireaction monitoring mode, we elucidated that oxidative biotransformations are involved as a mechanism of clomazone resistance in this species. E. phyllopogon plants hydroxylated mostly the isoxazolidinone ring of clomazone, and clomazone hydroxylation activity was greater in resistant than in susceptible plants. The major clomazone metabolites resulted from monohydroxylation and dihydroxylation of the isoxazolidinone ring. Resistant plants accumulated 6- to 12-fold more of the monohydroxylated metabolite than susceptible plants, while susceptible plants accumulated 2.5-fold more of the phytotoxic metabolite of clomazone, 5-ketoclomazone. Our results demonstrate that oxidative metabolism endows multiple-herbicide-resistant E. phyllopogon with cross-resistance to clomazone through enhanced herbicide degradation and lower accumulation of the toxic metabolite in resistant versus susceptible plants.
20208171	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) Os4BGlu12, a glycoside hydrolase family 1 beta-glucosidase (EC 3.2.1.21), was expressed as a fusion protein with an N-terminal thioredoxin/His(6) tag in Escherichia coli strain Origami B (DE3) and purified with subsequent removal of the N-terminal tag. Native Os4BGlu12 and its complex with 2,4-dinitrophenyl-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-beta-D-glucopyranoside (DNP2FG) were crystallized using 19% polyethylene glycol (3350 or 2000, respectively) in 0.1 M Tris-HCl pH 8.5, 0.16 M NaCl at 288 K. Diffraction data sets for the apo and inhibitor-bound forms were collected to 2.50 and 2.45 A resolution, respectively. The space group and the unit-cell parameters of the crystal indicated the presence of two molecules per asymmetric unit, with a solvent content of 50%. The structure of Os4BGlu12 was successfully solved in space group P4(3)2(1)2 by molecular replacement using the white clover cyanogenic beta-glucosidase structure (PDB code 1cbg) as a search model.
20208351	Rice prolamin, constituting type-I protein body (PB-I), is indigestible and causes deterioration of rice protein nutritional quality. In this study, the in vivo digestibility of rice protein isolates was investigated by tracing their intraluminal transit in the gastrointestinal (GI) tract of rats by western blotting and by observing the structures excreted in the feces by electron microscopy. Two types of rice protein isolates, produced by alkali extraction (AE-RP) and by starch degradation (SD-RP), were compared. The protein patterns in the isolates were similar, but their digestion in the GI-tract showed striking differences. In the AE-RP group, 13-kDa prolamin (13P) quickly disappeared in the lower GI tract and was not excreted in the feces. By contrast, in the SD-RP group, 13P accumulated massively and nearly intact PB-Is were excreted. These results indicate that the in vivo digestibility of prolamin can be improved by alkali extraction through structural changes to it.
20208408	In the inspection of genetically modified rice, rice taxon-specific DNA could not be detected in processed rice food (bifun: rice vermicelli). The effects of using PCR the ratio of rice powder content and temperature of processing on the detection of taxon-specific DNA were examined by means of processing model experiments using cornstarch with 0, 2, 5, 10% rice powder by weight. Cornstarch and rice powder were blended with water and subjected to heating, steam-treatment, and autoclaving. The rice taxon-specific DNA was detectable in 2% rice powder following heat and steam treatments. After autoclaving, rice taxon-specific DNA was detected only in the 10% rice powder product. In the processing model experiment using rice powder, it was found that autoclaving caused severe DNA degradation.
20208425	Rhizobia are well-known for their ability to infect and nodulate legume roots, forming a nitrogen-fixing symbiosis of agricultural importance. In addition, recent studies have shown that rhizobia can colonize roots and aerial plant tissues of rice as a model plant of the Graminaceae family. Here we show that rhizobia can invade tobacco, a model plant belonging to the Solanaceae family. Inoculation of seedling roots with five GFP-tagged rhizobial species followed by microscopy and viable plating analyses indicated their colonization of the surface and interior of the whole vegetative plant. Blockage of ascending epiphytic migration by coating the hypocotyls with Vaseline showed that the endophytic rhizobia can exit the leaf interior through stomata and colonize the external phyllosphere habitat. These studies indicate rhizobia can colonize both below and above-ground tissues of tobacco using a dynamic invasion process that involves both epiphytic and endophytic lifestyles.
20208427	To obtain an efficient natural lignocellulolytic complex enzyme, we screened an efficient lignocellulose degrading composite microbial system (XDC-2) from composted agricultural and animal wastes amended soil following a long-term directed acclimation. The XDC-2 could not only degrade natural lignocelluloses, but could also secret extracellular xylanase efficiently in liquid culture under static conditions at room temperature. The XDC-2 degraded rice straw by 60.3% after fermentation for 15 days. Hemicelluloses were decomposed effectively, while the extracellular xylanase activity was dominant with an activity of 8.357 U ml-1 on day 6 of the fermentation period. The extracellular crude enzyme noticeably hydrolyzed natural lignocelluloses. The optimum temperature and pH for the xylanase activity were 40 degrees and 6.0. However, the xylanase was activated in a wide pH range of 3.0-10.0, and retained more than 80% of its activity at 25-35 degrees and pH 5.0-8.0 after three days of incubation in liquid culture under static conditions. PCR-DGGE analysis of successive subculture indicated that the XDC-2 was structurally stable over long-term restricted and directed cultivation. Analysis of 16S rRNA gene clone library showed that the XDC-2 was mainly composed of mesophilic bacteria related to the genera Clostridium, Bacteroides, Alcaligenes, Pseudomonas, etc. Our results offer a new approach to exploring efficient lignocellulolytic enzymes by constructing a high-performance composite microbial system with synergistic complex enzymes.
20209217	The study investigated the association between dietary patterns and oral cancer as part of a Latin American multicenter hospital-based case-control study, and included 210 incident cases of oral cancer and 251 controls. Dietary data were collected using a Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ). Factor analysis was used to define dietary patterns, which were categorized into terciles. Odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95%CI) were calculated using unconditional multiple logistic regression. The patterns 'prudent', characterized mainly by vegetables and fruits, and 'traditional', by rice, and pulses showed an inverse association with oral cancer for the higher tercile, respectively, OR = 0.44; 95%CI: 0.25-0.75, p value for trend (p tend) = 0.03; OR = 0.53; 95%CI: 0.30-0.93, p tend = 0.06. The 'snacks pattern' was not associated with oral cancer. Besides the protective effect of a diet rich in vegetables and fruit, our data suggest that the traditional Brazilian diet, consisting mostly of rice and beans, may improve protection against oral cancer.
20210154	Visible and near infrared (Vis-NIR) spectroscopy was used to fast and non-destructively classify the disease levels of rice panicle blast. Reflectance spectra between 325 and 1 075 nm were measured. Kennard-Stone algorithm was operated to separate samples into calibration and prediction sets. Different spectral pretreatment methods, including standard normal variate (SNV) and multiplicative scatter correction (MSC), were used for the spectral pretreatment before further spectral analysis. A hybrid wavelength variable selection method which is combined with uninformative variable elimination (UVE) and successive projections algorithm (SPA) was operated to select effective wavelength variables from original spectra, SNV pretreated spectra and MSC pretreated spectra, respectively. UVE was firstly operated to remove uninformative wavelength variables from the full-spectrum. Then SPA selected the effective wavelength variables with less colinearity after UVE. Least square-support vector machine (LS-SVM) was used as the calibration method for the spectral analysis in this study. The selected effective wavelengths were set as input variables of LS-SVM model. The LS-SVM model established based on SNV-UVE-SPA obtained the best results. Only six effective wavelengths (459, 546, 569, 590, 775 and 981 nm) were selected from the full-spectrum which has 600 wavelength variables by UVE-SPA, and their LS-SVM model's performance was further improved. For SNV-UVE-SPA-LS-SVM model, coefficient of determination for prediction set (R2(p)), root mean square error for prediction (RMSEP) and residual predictive deviation (RPD) were 0.979, 0.507 and 6.580, respectively. The overall results indicate that Vis-NIR spectroscopy is a feasible way to classify disease levels of rice panicle blast fast and non-destructively. UVE-SPA is an efficient variable selection method for the spectral analysis, and their selected effective wavelengths can represent the useful information of the full-spectrum and have higher signal/noise ratio and less colinearity.
20212044	Cell division protein FtsZ can form single-stranded filaments with a cooperative behavior by self-switching assembly. Subsequent condensation and bending of FtsZ filaments are important for the formation and constriction of the cytokinetic ring. PC190723 is an effective bactericidal cell division inhibitor that targets FtsZ in the pathogen Staphylococcus aureus and Bacillus subtilis and does not affect Escherichia coli cells, which apparently binds to a zone equivalent to the binding site of the antitumor drug taxol in tubulin (Haydon, D. J., Stokes, N. R., Ure, R., Galbraith, G., Bennett, J. M., Brown, D. R., Baker, P. J., Barynin, V. V., Rice, D. W., Sedelnikova, S. E., Heal, J. R., Sheridan, J. M., Aiwale, S. T., Chauhan, P. K., Srivastava, A., Taneja, A., Collins, I., Errington, J., and Czaplewski, L. G. (2008) Science 312, 1673-1675). We have found that the benzamide derivative PC190723 is an FtsZ polymer-stabilizing agent. PC190723 induced nucleated assembly of Bs-FtsZ into single-stranded coiled protofilaments and polymorphic condensates, including bundles, coils, and toroids, whose formation could be modulated with different solution conditions. Under conditions for reversible assembly of Bs-FtsZ, PC190723 binding reduced the GTPase activity and induced the formation of straight bundles and ribbons, which was also observed with Sa-FtsZ but not with nonsusceptible Ec-FtsZ. The fragment 2,6-difluoro-3-methoxybenzamide also induced Bs-FtsZ bundling. We propose that polymer stabilization by PC190723 suppresses in vivo FtsZ polymer dynamics and bacterial division. The biochemical action of PC190723 on FtsZ parallels that of the microtubule-stabilizing agent taxol on the eukaryotic structural homologue tubulin. Both taxol and PC190723 stabilize polymers against disassembly by preferential binding to each assembled protein. It is yet to be investigated whether both ligands target structurally related assembly switches.
20212898	Application of the central limit theorem to the stochastic equation of propagation suggests that the probability distribution of the complex wave amplitude defined on the geometrical phase front is approximately normal. The resulting irradiance probability density function, valid in the strong scintillation regime, is an exponential multiplied by the modified Bessel function I(0) both of argument proportional to the irradiance; it is not the Rice-Nakagami density function. Quantitative tests show that this exponential-Bessel function constitutes as good a fit as the log-normal to the irradiance probability data reported in this paper. Since the normal distribution hypothesis is consistent with the stochastic wave equation, the model proposed here should be a simple substitute to the often used but theoretically incorrect log-normal irradiance probability distribution model.
20213122	The gene coding for rice chloroplastic L-myo-inositol-1-phosphate synthase (MIPS; EC 5.5.1.4) has been identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption time-of-flight mass spectrometry analysis of the purified and immunologically cross-reactive approximately 60 kDa chloroplastic protein following two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, which exhibited sequence identity with the cytosolic MIPS coded by OsINO1-1 gene. A possible chloroplastic transit peptide sequence was identified upstream of the OsINO1-1 gene upon analysis of rice genome. RT-PCR and confocal microscope studies confirmed transcription, effective translation and its functioning as a chloroplast transit peptide. Bioinformatic analysis mapped the chloroplastic MIPS (OsINO1-1) gene on chromosome 3, and a second MIPS gene (OsINO1-2) on chromosome 10 which lacks conventional chloroplast transit peptide sequence as in OsINO1-1. Two new PcINO1 genes, with characteristic promoter activity and upstream cis-elements were identified and cloned, but whether these proteins can be translocated to the chloroplast or not is yet to be ascertained. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay carried out with nuclear extract of Porteresia coarctata leaves grown under both control and stressed condition shows binding of nuclear proteins with the upstream elements. Nucleotide divergence among the different Oryza and Porteresia INO1 genes were calculated and compared.
20213442	Rice plants grown in anaerobic paddy soil prefer to use ammonium ion as an inorganic nitrogen source for their growth. The ammonium ions are assimilated by the coupled reaction of glutamine synthetase (GS) and glutamate synthase (GOGAT). In rice, there is a small gene family for GOGAT: there are two NADH-dependent types and one ferredoxin (Fd)-dependent type. Fd-GOGAT is important in the re-assimilation of photorespiratorily generated ammonium ions in chloroplasts. Although cell-type and age-dependent expression of two NADH-GOGAT genes has been well characterized, metabolic function of individual gene product is not fully understood. Reverse genetics approach is a direct way to characterize functions of isoenzymes. We have isolated a knockout rice mutant lacking NADH-dependent glutamate synthase1 (NADH-GOGAT1) and our studies show that this isoenzyme is important for primary ammonium assimilation in roots at the seedling stage. NADH-GOGAT1 is also important in the development of active tiller number, when the mutant was grown in paddy field until the harvest. Expression of NADH-GOGAT2 and Fd-GOGAT in the mutant was identical with that in wild-type, suggesting that these GOGATs are not able to compensate for NADH-GOGAT1 function.
20213512	Proteins encoded by the NAC gene family constitute one of the largest plant-specific transcription factors, which have been identified to play many important roles in both abiotic and biotic stress adaptation, as well as in plant development regulation. In the current paper, a full-length cDNA sequence of a novel wheat NAC gene, designated as TaNAC4, was isolated using in silico cloning and the reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) methods. TaNAC4 sharing high homology with rice OsNAC4 gene was predicted to encode a protein of 308 amino acid residues, which contained a plant-specific NAC domain in the N-terminus. Transient expression analysis indicated that the deduced TaNAC4 protein was localized in the nucleus of onion epidemical cells. Yeast one-hybrid assay revealed that the C-terminal region of the TaNAC4 protein had transcriptional activity. The expression of TaNAC4 was largely higher in the wheat seedling roots, than that in leaves and stems. TaNAC4 transcript in wheat leaves was induced by the infection of strip rust pathogen, and also by exogenous applied methyl jasmonate (MeJA), ABA and ethylene. However, salicylic acid (SA) had no obvious effect on TaNAC4 expression. Environmental stimuli, including high salinity, wounding, and low-temperature also induced TaNAC4 expression. These results indicate that this novel TaNAC4 gene functions as a transcriptional activator involved in wheat response to biotic and abiotic stresses.
20213576	The identification of plant proteins expressed in response to phytopathogens is a remaining challenge to proteome methodology. Proteomic methods, such as electrophoresis and mass spectrometry have been extensively used for protein differential expression studies in several plants including Arabidopsis thaliana, rice, and wheat. However, in coffee (Coffea canephora) and cotton (Gossypium hirsutum), bidimensional electrophoresis (2-DE) analysis has been rarely employed. Moreover, global protein expression in both agricultural plants in response to biotic stress conditions had not been reported until now. In this study, Meloidogyne paranaensis and M. incognita, two devastating phytonematodes for numerous crop cultures, were used to infect resistant genotypes of coffee and cotton plants. The protein expression of infected- and non-infected roots were evaluated by 2-DE following in silico experiments. Additionally, gels were stained with silver nitrate and/or Coomassie brilliant blue in order to obtain an optimized method for proteomic analysis of plant-nematode interaction. The 2-DE analysis revealed an enhanced number of protein spots, as well as differentially expressed proteins, when Coomassie brilliant blue was used. The results obtained here could be extended to other plant species, providing valuable information to root-nematode interactions.
20213677	Rhizobial endophytes infect and colonize not only leguminous plants, but several non-leguminous species as well. Using green fluorescent protein tagging technique, it has been shown that Rhizobia infect different varieties of rice species and migrate from plant roots to aerial tissues such as leaf sheaths and leaves. The interaction between them was found to promote the growth of rice. The growth promotion is the cumulative result of enhanced photosynthesis and stress resistance. In addition, indole-3-acetic acid also contributes to the promotion. Gel-based comparative proteomic approaches were applied to analyze the protein profiles of three different tissues (root, leaf sheath and leaf) of Sinorhizobium meliloti 1021 inoculated rice in order to get an understanding about the molecular mechanism. Upon the inoculation of rhizobia, proteins involved in nine different functional categories were either up-regulated or down-regulated. Photosynthesis related proteins were up-regulated only in leaf sheath and leaf, while the up-regulated proteins in root were exclusively defense related. The results implied that there might have been an increase in the import and transport of proteins involved in light and dark reactions to the chloroplast as well as more efficient distribution of nutrients, hence enhanced photosynthesis. Although the initiation of defensive reactions mainly occurred in roots, some different defense mechanisms were also evoked in the aerial tissues.
20214804	Puf proteins have important roles in controlling gene expression at the post-transcriptional level by promoting RNA decay and repressing translation. The Pumilio homology domain (PUM-HD) is a conserved region within Puf proteins that binds to RNA with sequence specificity. Although Puf proteins have been well characterized in animal and fungal systems, little is known about the structural and functional characteristics of Puf-like proteins in plants. The Arabidopsis and rice genomes code for 26 and 19 Puf-like proteins, respectively, each possessing eight or fewer Puf repeats in their PUM-HD. Key amino acids in the PUM-HD of several of these proteins are conserved with those of animal and fungal homologs, whereas other plant Puf proteins demonstrate extensive variability in these amino acids. Three-dimensional modeling revealed that the predicted structure of this domain in plant Puf proteins provides a suitable surface for binding RNA. Electrophoretic gel mobility shift experiments showed that the Arabidopsis AtPum2 PUM-HD binds with high affinity to BoxB of the Drosophila Nanos Response Element I (NRE1) RNA, whereas a point mutation in the core of the NRE1 resulted in a significant reduction in binding affinity. Transient expression of several of the Arabidopsis Puf proteins as fluorescent protein fusions revealed a dynamic, punctate cytoplasmic pattern of localization for most of these proteins. The presence of predicted nuclear export signals and accumulation of AtPuf proteins in the nucleus after treatment of cells with leptomycin B demonstrated that shuttling of these proteins between the cytosol and nucleus is common among these proteins. In addition to the cytoplasmically enriched AtPum proteins, two AtPum proteins showed nuclear targeting with enrichment in the nucleolus. The Puf family of RNA-binding proteins in plants consists of a greater number of members than any other model species studied to date. This, along with the amino acid variability observed within their PUM-HDs, suggests that these proteins may be involved in a wide range of post-transcriptional regulatory events that are important in providing plants with the ability to respond rapidly to changes in environmental conditions and throughout development.
20215689	Cultivation of rice plants (Koshihikari, IR4595 and IR28) in 250 mmol/L NaCl over 16 days provided interesting profiles of responses on a flow-through electrochemiluminescence (ECL) system with tris(2,2'-bipyridine)ruthenium complex. Although some time lags were noted among these rice plants, the increment in the ECL responses was clearly observed on the 11th day. The obtained ECL response profiles were consistent with the proline profiles obtained by HPLC. Such consistency demonstrated that the present ECL system would find a utility as a useful sensor for salt stress on rice plants.
20217123	The messenger RNA of the rice seed storage protein prolamine is targeted to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) membranes surrounding prolamine protein bodies via a mechanism, which is dependent upon both RNA sorting signals and the actin cytoskeleton. In this study we have used an RNA bait corresponding to the previously characterized 5'CDS prolamine cis-localization sequence for the capture of RNA binding proteins (RBPs) from cytoskeleton-enriched fractions of developing rice seed. In comparison to a control RNA, the cis-localization RNA bait sequence led to the capture of a much larger number of proteins, 18 of which have been identified by tandem mass spectrometry. Western blots demonstrate that several of the candidate proteins analyzed to date show good to excellent specificity for binding to cis-localization sequences over the control RNA bait. Temporal expression studies showed that steady state protein levels for one RNA binding protein, RBP-A, paralleled prolamine gene expression. Immunoprecipitation studies showed that RBP-A is bound to prolamine and glutelin RNAs in vivo, supporting a direct role in storage protein gene expression. Using confocal immunofluorescence microscopy, RBP-A was found to be distributed to multiple compartments in the cell. In addition to the nucleus, RBP-A co-localizes with microtubules and is associated with cortical ER membranes. Collectively, these results indicate that employing a combination of in vitro binding and in vivo binding and localization studies is a valid strategy for the identification of putative prolamine mRNA binding proteins, such as RBP-A, which play a role in controlling expression of storage protein mRNAs in the cytoplasm.
20217243	Fe participates in several important reactions in plant metabolism. However, Fe homeostasis in plants is not completely understood, and molecular studies on Fe-excess stress are scarce. Rice (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) is largely cultivated in submerged conditions, where the extremely reductive environment can lead to severe Fe overload. In this work, we used representational difference analysis (RDA) to isolate sequences up-regulated in rice shoots after exposure to Fe-excess. We isolated 24 sequences which have putative functions in distinct cellular processes, such as transcription regulation (OsWRKY80), stress response (OsGAP1, DEAD-BOX RNA helicase), proteolysis (oryzain-α, rhomboid protein), photosynthesis (chlorophyll a/b binding protein), sugar metabolism (β glucosidase) and electron transport (NADH ubiquinone oxireductase). We show that the putative WRKY transcription factor OsWRKY80 is up-regulated in rice leaves, stems and roots after Fe-excess treatment. This up-regulation is also observed after dark-induced senescence and drought stress, indicating that OsWRKY80 could be a general stress-responsive gene. To our knowledge, this is the first report of an Fe-excess-induced transcription factor in plants.
20217416	Recombinant genes conferring resistance to antibiotics or herbicides are widely used as selectable markers in plant transformation for selecting the primary transgenic events. However, these become redundant once the transgenic plants have been developed and identified. Although, there is no evidence that the selectable marker genes are unsafe for consumers and the environment, it would be desirable if the marker genes can be eliminated from the final transgenic events. The availability of efficient transformation methods can enable the possibility of developing transgenic events that are devoid of the marker gene/s upfront. Taking advantage of the high and consistent transformation potential of peanut, we report a technique for developing its transgenics without the use of any selectable marker gene. Marker-free binary vectors harboring either the phytoene synthase gene from maize (Zmpsy1) or the chitinase gene from rice (Rchit) were constructed and used for Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of peanut. The putative transgenic events growing in vitro were initially identified by PCR and further confirmed for gene integration and expression by dot blots assays, Southern blots, and RT-PCR where they showed a transformation frequency of over 75%. This system is simple, efficient, rapid, and does not require the complex segregation steps and analysis for selection of the transgenic events. This approach for generation of marker-free transgenic plants minimizes the risk of introducing unwanted genetic changes, allows stacking of multiple genes and can be applicable to other plant species that have high shoot regeneration efficiencies.
20218604	Xylanase A from Paenibacillus barcinonensis, a new species isolated from a rice field, has been cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. Purified recombinant xylanase showed high activity on xylans from hardwoods and cereals, and exhibited K(m) and V(max) of 2.93 mg/mL and 50.67 U/mg on birchwood xylan. Xylanase A was highly active at 60 degrees C in alkaline pH values up to 9.5 and remained stable for at least 3 h in alkaline conditions. The amino acid sequence deduced from xynA revealed that it is a single domain xylanase belonging to the GH10 family. Thin layer chromatography analysis showed that the enzyme released a mixture of hydrolysis products including substituted xylooligomers from cereal arabinoxylans, while xylose, xylobiose, and aldotetraouronic acid were the main products released from glucuronoxylan from birchwood. The enzyme released a complex mixture of xylooligomers for acetylated xylan from eucalyptus, revealing its potential to depolymerize this widely used resource in the pulp and paper industry.
20218723	In this study, sufu, a fermented product of soybean curd, was prepared by ripening the salted tofu in the mash of Aspergillus oryzae -fermented rice-soybean koji possessing various hydrolytic enzymes for 16 days. It was found that protease, alpha-amylase, beta-amylase, and lipase activities observed in the koji granules reduced most pronouncedly during the initial 4 or 8 days of ripening. Meanwhile, an increase in the activity of the various enzymes was noted in the ripening infusion and tofu cubes. During the ripening period, the content of total nitrogen, pH, and hardness of sufu decreased, while the titratable acidity, protein dissolution ratio, content of free fatty acid, and free amino acid increased with glutamic acid, showing the largest magnitude of increase at the end of the 16 day ripening period. Additionally, the color of tofu cubes changed from pale yellow to yellowish brown at the end of the ripening period.
2021884	To obtain reference levels for subsequent investigations, we analysed the IgG1 and IgG4 antibody levels to common foods in the sera of 213 unselected children (age 3 months to 14 years). The children were clustered into five age groups and tested on a broad screening panel of common foods. We used the IgG1 and IgG4 RAST with Sepharose-coupled antigens: cows' milk, hens' egg white, banana, legumes (a mixture of soybean and peanut), grains (a mixture of wheat and rice), potato, orange and pork. In all age groups and all antigens, a considerable variability in the antibody response was found. As for some assays more than half of the sera were negative or borderline, statistics based on interval or ordinal scaling were considered inappropriate and we resorted to nominal classification. We decided to use, for each of the assays, the 75-percentile of the age group as a cut-off level. Each antibody titre was thus converted into positive (more than the 75-percentile of that age group) or negative; the number of positive tests was used as the score. This resulted in a sigma G1-score and a sigma G4 score (summed scores for IgG1 and IgG4 antibodies, respectively). The results of the present study indicate that children with a high response to one food tend to have elevated responses to other non-related foods, possibly explained by a defective mucosal barrier and/or a hyperactive immune system. This suggests that a high-food responder phenotype may exist.
20220098	Seed dormancy provides a strategy for flowering plants to survive adverse natural conditions. It is also an important agronomic trait affecting grain yield, quality, and processing performance. We cloned a rice quantitative trait locus, Sdr4, which contributes substantially to differences in seed dormancy between japonica (Nipponbare) and indica (Kasalath) cultivars. Sdr4 expression is positively regulated by OsVP1, a global regulator of seed maturation, and in turn positively regulates potential regulators of seed dormancy and represses the expression of postgerminative genes, suggesting that Sdr4 acts as an intermediate regulator of dormancy in the seed maturation program. Japonica cultivars have only the Nipponbare allele (Sdr4-n), which endows reduced dormancy, whereas both the Kasalath allele (Srd4-k) and Sdr4-n are widely distributed in the indica group, indicating prevalent introgression. Srd4-k also is found in the wild ancestor Oryza rufipogon, whereas Sdr4-n appears to have been produced through at least two mutation events from the closest O. rufipogon allele among the accessions examined. These results are discussed with respect to possible selection of the allele during the domestication process.
20222568	Rice blast disease, caused by the fungus Magnoporthe grisea is responsible for considerable damages on rice and leaf spot on some weeds in Iran and in other parts of the world. Infected samples were collected from rice and weeds including Digitaria sanguinalis (crabgrass), Setaria italica (foxtail millet), Echinochloa crus-galli (barnyard millet), and some unknown weeds during 1997-2005 and were preserved in collection of Mycology at the University of Tehran, Iran. In this study, genetic diversity of Magnaporthe grisea species complex isolates was studied based on DNA fingerprinting by rep-PCR, using of two primers including ERIC and BOX. The total DNA of 75 isolates was extracted and DNA fragments were amplified in a thermal cycler program using mentioned primers. Therefore, DNA fragments from 400 bp to 3000 bp were amplified. Based on cluster analysis for two primers (ERIC and BOX), eight fingerprinting groups (ctonal lineages) and sixty haplotypes were identified. "A" clonal lineage was containing the highest number of isolates and became dominant clonal lineages with 35 isolates from rice and 3 isolates from S. italica, whereas the highest number of isolates obtained from D. sanguinalis belonged to "E" clonal lineage and was the second largest clonal lineage. Approximately all of the M. grisea species complex isolates from crabgrass and some of unknown weeds were separated from other isolates in 42% similarity. As a result, asexual fertility causes low diversity in populations of M. grisea species complex and speciation could be one of the reasons of differentiation between isolates from D. sanguinalis with other isolates. Overall, these data indicated a low level of genetic diversity in the Iranian M. grisea species complex population similar to that reported in other countries.
20222575	Hundred and twenty microbial isolates could be isolated from different soil samples collected from different localities in Egypt. One of the actinomycete culture AZ-H-A5 from three cultures was found to produce a wide spectrum antimicrobial agent when cultivated on rice straw. The actinomycete AZ-H-A5 could be isolated from a soil sample collected from Helwan district, Egypt. The nucleotide sequence of the 16s RNA gene (1.5 Kb) of the most potent strain evidenced an 85% similarity with Streptomyces pseudovenezue, EU841712 and Streptomyces galilaeus. From the taxonomic features, the actinomycetes isolate AZ-H-A5 matches with Streptomyces rimosus in the morphological, physiological and biochemical characters. Thus, it was given the suggested name Streptomyces rimosus, AZ-H-A5. The parameters controlling the biosynthetic process of antimicrobial agent formation including: inoculum size, different pH values, different temperatures, different incubation period, and different carbon and nitrogen sources, potassium nitrate, K2HPO4, MgSO4.7H2O and KCl concentrations were fully investigates. The active metabolite was extracted using ethyl acetate (1:1, v/v) at pH 7.0. The separation of the active ingredient and its purification was performed using both thin layer chromatography (TLC) and column chromatography (CC) techniques. The physicochemical characteristics of the purified antibiotic viz. color, melting point, solubility, elemental analysis, spectroscopic characteristics and chemical reactions have been investigated. This analysis indicates a suggested empirical formula of C20H37N13O13. The minimum inhibition concentrations "MICs" of the purified antimicrobial agent were also determined. The purified antimicrobial agent was suggestive of being belonging to Destomycin-A antibiotic produced by Streptomyces rimosus, AZ-H-A5.
20222612	Propanil is the most important herbicide for rice weed management both at world and national level. Rice growers complains of poor control of Echinochloa was monitored in Mondego and Sorraia river valleys, Portugal. Seed samples were collected from the affected area and tested. After the first screening of 37 populations, the sensitivity of six Echinochloa spp. populations to propanil was assessed in a growth chamber dose response study (with seven rates: 0- 7200 g a.i. ha(-1)). Fresh weight was assessed 21 days after treatment and data was analysed using non-linear regression analysis and sensitivity indices (SI = ED80, less sensitive/ ED80, most sensitive) calculated for the two regions surveyed. The rates of 50% of plant growth inhibition (ED50) was calculated from the fitted equations. Four populations where confirmed susceptible with ED50 values ranging from 89 to 1866 g a.i. ha(-1). Two other populations presented ED50 values of 6538 and 9536 g a.i. ha(-1). Mondego and Sorraia SI were 2.35 and 53.55 respectively. The pattern of propanil use in the two regions could explain the higher sensitivity of Mondego populations compared to Sorraia populations. The response to a single dose Petri dish bioassay (360 g a.i. L(-1)) was similar among the six populations, denoting that this method was not so sensitive as the whole plant assay to discriminate between Echinochloa spp. populations. Further studies are needed with more doses and populations since this method allows for an answer within six days, compared with 41 days with the whole plant bioassay.
20222712	Rice (Oryza sativa) is a main staple food in the world, and several genetically modified (GM) rice events have been approved for commercialization. To accurately quantify GM contents in rice derived products, we have evaluated the variation of seed DNA density and nuclear DNA content in the hull, endosperm, and embryo of rice seeds from 19 cultivars, as well as their impacts on GM rice quantification. Rice endosperm DNA accounts for 73.71% of total seed DNA, whereas the hull and embryo DNAs account for 3.98% and 22.31%, respectively. Two formulas were established to describe the relationship between GM content on the basis of weight ratio (GM(wt)%) and that on the basis of haploid genome copy number ratio (GM(hg)%) for the samples containing heterozygous GM rice seeds. These two equations were well confirmed in quantification of the heterozygous GM rice TT51-1 seeds containing the GM allele from a female parent or that from a male parent. This work is useful for accurate quantification of GM rice using reference materials containing the heterozygous GM rice seed powder.
20222924	Human lactoferrin (hLF), a member of the transferrin family, is known for its antimicrobial and anti-inflammatory effects. Recent studies on various nonskin cell lines indicate that hLF may have a stimulatory effect on cell proliferation. To study the potential role of hLF in wound re-epithelialization. The effects of hLF on cell growth, migration, attachment and survival were assessed, with a rice-derived recombinant hLF (holo-rhLF), using proliferation analysis, scratch migration assay, calcein-AM/propidium iodide staining and terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick-end labelling (TUNEL) method, respectively. The mechanisms of hLF on cell proliferation and migration were explored using specific pathway inhibitors. The involvement of lactoferrin receptor low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 1 (LRP1) was examined with RNA interference technique. An in vivo swine second-degree burn wound model was also used to assess wound re-epithelialization. Studies revealed that holo-rhLF significantly stimulated keratinocyte proliferation which could be blocked by mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) kinase 1 inhibitor. Holo-rhLF also showed strong promoting effects on keratinocyte migration, which could be blocked by either inhibition of the MAPK, Src and Rho/ROCK pathways, or downregulation of the LRP1 receptor. With cells under starving or 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate exposure, the addition of holo-rhLF was found greatly to increase cell viability and inhibit cell apoptosis. Additionally, holo-rhLF significantly increased the rate of wound re-epithelialization in swine second-degree burn wounds. Our studies demonstrate the direct effects of holo-rhLF on wound re-epithelialization including the enhancement of keratinocyte proliferation and migration as well as the protection of cells from apoptosis. The data strongly indicate its potential therapeutic applications in wound healing.
20222972	Pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan (L.) Millsp) is one of the major grain legume crops of the tropics and subtropics, but biotic stresses [Fusarium wilt (FW), sterility mosaic disease (SMD), etc.] are serious challenges for sustainable crop production. Modern genomic tools such as molecular markers and candidate genes associated with resistance to these stresses offer the possibility of facilitating pigeonpea breeding for improving biotic stress resistance. Availability of limited genomic resources, however, is a serious bottleneck to undertake molecular breeding in pigeonpea to develop superior genotypes with enhanced resistance to above mentioned biotic stresses. With an objective of enhancing genomic resources in pigeonpea, this study reports generation and analysis of comprehensive resource of FW- and SMD- responsive expressed sequence tags (ESTs). A total of 16 cDNA libraries were constructed from four pigeonpea genotypes that are resistant and susceptible to FW ('ICPL 20102' and 'ICP 2376') and SMD ('ICP 7035' and 'TTB 7') and a total of 9,888 (9,468 high quality) ESTs were generated and deposited in dbEST of GenBank under accession numbers GR463974 to GR473857 and GR958228 to GR958231. Clustering and assembly analyses of these ESTs resulted into 4,557 unique sequences (unigenes) including 697 contigs and 3,860 singletons. BLASTN analysis of 4,557 unigenes showed a significant identity with ESTs of different legumes (23.2-60.3%), rice (28.3%), Arabidopsis (33.7%) and poplar (35.4%). As expected, pigeonpea ESTs are more closely related to soybean (60.3%) and cowpea ESTs (43.6%) than other plant ESTs. Similarly, BLASTX similarity results showed that only 1,603 (35.1%) out of 4,557 total unigenes correspond to known proteins in the UniProt database (<or= 1E-08). Functional categorization of the annotated unigenes sequences showed that 153 (3.3%) genes were assigned to cellular component category, 132 (2.8%) to biological process, and 132 (2.8%) in molecular function. Further, 19 genes were identified differentially expressed between FW- responsive genotypes and 20 between SMD- responsive genotypes. Generated ESTs were compiled together with 908 ESTs available in public domain, at the time of analysis, and a set of 5,085 unigenes were defined that were used for identification of molecular markers in pigeonpea. For instance, 3,583 simple sequence repeat (SSR) motifs were identified in 1,365 unigenes and 383 primer pairs were designed. Assessment of a set of 84 primer pairs on 40 elite pigeonpea lines showed polymorphism with 15 (28.8%) markers with an average of four alleles per marker and an average polymorphic information content (PIC) value of 0.40. Similarly, in silico mining of 133 contigs with >or= 5 sequences detected 102 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 37 contigs. As an example, a set of 10 contigs were used for confirming in silico predicted SNPs in a set of four genotypes using wet lab experiments. Occurrence of SNPs were confirmed for all the 6 contigs for which scorable and sequenceable amplicons were generated. PCR amplicons were not obtained in case of 4 contigs. Recognition sites for restriction enzymes were identified for 102 SNPs in 37 contigs that indicates possibility of assaying SNPs in 37 genes using cleaved amplified polymorphic sequences (CAPS) assay. The pigeonpea EST dataset generated here provides a transcriptomic resource for gene discovery and development of functional markers associated with biotic stress resistance. Sequence analyses of this dataset have showed conservation of a considerable number of pigeonpea transcripts across legume and model plant species analysed as well as some putative pigeonpea specific genes. Validation of identified biotic stress responsive genes should provide candidate genes for allele mining as well as candidate markers for molecular breeding.
20222994	The TATA-box and TATA-variants are regulatory elements involved in the formation of a transcription initiation complex. Both have been conserved throughout evolution in a restricted region close to the Transcription Start Site (TSS). However, less than half of the genes in model organisms studied so far have been found to contain either one of these elements. Indeed different core-promoter elements are involved in the recruitment of the TATA-box-binding protein. Here we assessed the possibility of identifying novel functional motifs in plant genes, sharing the TATA-box topological constraints. We developed an ab-initio approach considering the preferential location of motifs relative to the TSS. We identified motifs observed at the TATA-box expected location and conserved in both Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa promoters. We identified TC-elements within non-TA-rich promoters 30 bases upstream of the TSS. As with the TATA-box and TATA-variant sequences, it was possible to construct a unique distance graph with the TC-element sequences. The structural and functional features of TC-element-containing genes were distinct from those of TATA-box- or TATA-variant-containing genes. Arabidopsis thaliana transcriptome analysis revealed that TATA-box-containing genes were generally those showing relatively high levels of expression and that TC-element-containing genes were generally those expressed in specific conditions. Our observations suggest that the TC-elements might constitute a class of novel regulatory elements participating towards the complex modulation of gene expression in plants.
20226077	PIF/Harbinger is the most recently discovered DNA transposon superfamily and is now known to populate genomes from fungi to plants to animals. Mobilization of superfamily members requires two separate element-encoded proteins (ORF1 and TPase). Members of this superfamily also mobilize Tourist-like miniature inverted repeat transposable elements (MITEs), which are the most abundant transposable elements associated with the genes of plants, especially the cereal grasses. The phylogenetic analysis of many plant genomes indicates that MITEs can amplify rapidly from one or a few elements to hundreds or thousands.The most active DNA transposon identified to date in plants or animals is mPing, a rice Tourist-like MITE that is a deletion derivative of the autonomous Ping element. Ping and the closely related Pong are the only known naturally active PIF/Harbinger elements. Some rice strains accumulate ~40 new mPing insertions per plant per generation. In this study we report the development of a yeast transposition assay as a first step in deciphering the mechanism underlying the amplification of Tourist-MITEs. The ORF1 and TPase proteins encoded by Ping and Pong have been shown to mobilize mPing in rice and in transgenic Arabidopsis. Initial tests of the native proteins in a yeast assay resulted in very low transposition. Significantly higher activities were obtained by mutation of a putative nuclear export signal (NES) in the TPase that increased the amount of TPase in the nucleus. When introduced into Arabidopsis, the NES mutant protein also catalyzed higher frequencies of mPing excision from the gfp reporter gene. Our yeast assay retains key features of excision and insertion of mPing including precise excision, extended insertion sequence preference, and a requirement for two proteins that can come from either Ping or Pong or both elements. The yeast transposition assay provides a robust platform for analysis of the mechanism underlying transposition catalyzed by the two proteins of PIF/Harbinger elements. It recapitulates all of the features of excision and reinsertion of mPing as seen in plant systems. Furthermore, a mutation of a putative NES in the TPase increased transposition both in yeast and plants.
20226225	The speciation of arsenic(III) and arsenic(V) by using Streptococcus pyogenes immobilized on Sepabeads SP 70 resin has been investigated with solid-phase extraction method. The arsenic levels were determined hydride generation atomic absorption spectrometry (HGAAS) in sample solutions. The procedure presented based on quantitative recoveries of As(III) as >95%. Also the As(V) recoveries were obtained as <5% using the presented method. After reduction of As(V) by using KI and ascorbic acid and waiting 1h later, the system was applied to determination of total arsenic. As(V) was found as the difference between the total As and As(III) content. Various experimental parameters such as pH, amount of microorganism, sample volume, etc. were investigated. The capacity of biosorbent for arsenic(III) was calculated as 7.3 mg/g. The preconcentration factor was found as 36. The relative standard deviation was calculated below 8%. Limit of detection was calculated as 13 ng/L. The validation of the presented procedure was tested by analysis of standard reference materials (NIST SRM 1568a Rice floor and GBW 07605 Tea) and obtained fairly compatible results. The procedure was also successfully applied to arsenic speciation and determination of some natural water and food samples.
20227044	Although there is evident homology among reproductive organs when comparing Poaceae (grass) and eudicots, the identity of grass specific organs, such as lodicules, palea, lemma, and glumes has been the subject of a vast and largely inconclusive discussion. Here we provide some direct evidence to support the idea that the empty glumes of rice (Oryza sativa) are counterparts of lemmas. We show that the development of empty glumes is regulated by ELE (elongated empty glume), which belongs to a plant specific novel gene family. Mutations at the ELE locus cause elongated empty glumes, which mimic the lemmas and have the epidermal morphology of lemmas with four or five vascular bundles. As a nuclear-localized gene, ELE is specifically expressed at the empty glumes of immature spikelets, and its ectopic expression causes many floral development defects, including lemma-like palea, extra palea-like structures, elongated lodicules, extra stamens and stigmas. Our result suggests that empty glumes are lemmas of the sterile florets located at the lateral side of the rice spikelet, and ELE acts as a regulator restraining its growth to maintain its small size in wild-type plants.
20227048	Using an accession of common wild rice (Oryza rufipogon Griff.) collected from Yuanjiang County, Yunnan Province, China, as the donor and an elite cultivar 93-11, widely used in two-line indica hybrid rice production in China, as the recurrent parent, an advanced backcross populations were developed. Through genotyping of 187 SSR markers and investigation of six yield-related traits of two generations (BC(4)F(2) and BC(4)F(4)), a total of 26 QTLs were detected by employing single point analysis and interval mapping in both generations. Of the 26 QTLs, the alleles of 10 (38.5%) QTLs originating from O. rufipogon had shown a beneficial effect for yield-related traits in the 93-11 genetic background. In addition, five QTLs controlling yield and its components were newly identified, indicating that there are potentially novel alleles in Yuanjiang common wild rice. Three regions underling significant QTLs for several yield-related traits were detected on chromosome 1, 7 and 12. The QTL clusters were founded and corresponding agronomic traits of those QTLs showed highly significant correlation, suggesting the pleiotropism or tight linkage. Fine-mapping and cloning of these yield-related QTLs from wild rice would be helpful to elucidating molecular mechanism of rice domestication and rice breeding in the future.
20227134	Rice (Oryza sativa) is the most important crop for human consumption, providing staple food for more than half of the world's population. Rice is conventionally grown under flooded conditions for most of its growing cycle. However, about half of the rice area in the world does not have sufficient water to maintain optimal growing conditions and yield is reduced by drought. One possible way to increase rice production in order to meet the rice demand is to improve its drought tolerance by means of the arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) symbiosis. Thus, AM and non-AM rice plants were maintained under well-watered conditions or were subjected to moderate and severe drought stress for 15d. After that, half of the plants from each treatment were harvested, while the other half were allowed to recover from drought for additional 25d. The results showed that rice can benefit from the AM symbiosis and improve their long-term development after a drought stress period. In fact, at each watering level, AM plants showed about 50% enhanced shoot fresh weight as compared to non-AM plants. The AM symbiosis enhanced the plant photosynthetic efficiency under stress over 40%, induced the accumulation of the antioxidant molecule glutathione and reduced the accumulation of hydrogen peroxide and the oxidative damage to lipids in these plants. Thus, these combined effects enhanced the plant performance after a drought stress period.
20227662	Recognition of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPs) by pattern recognition receptors (PRRs) represents a critical first step of innate defense in plants and animals. However, maturation and transport of PRRs are not well understood. We find that the rice chitin receptor OsCERK1 interacts with Hsp90 and its cochaperone Hop/Sti1 in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Hop/Sti1 and Hsp90 are required for efficient transport of OsCERK1 from the ER to the plasma membrane (PM) via a pathway dependent on Sar1, a small GTPase which regulates ER-to-Golgi trafficking. Further, Hop/Sti1 and Hsp90 are present at the PM in a complex (designated the "defensome") with OsRac1, a plant-specific Rho-type GTPase. Finally, Hop/Sti1 was required for chitin-triggered immunity and resistance to rice blast fungus. Our results suggest that the Hop/Sti1-Hsp90 chaperone complex plays an important and likely conserved role in the maturation and transport of PRRs and may function to link PRRs and Rac/Rop GTPases.
20227927	Light-induced activation of class II cyclobutane pyrimidine dimer (CPD) photolyases of Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa has been examined by UV/Vis and pulsed Davies-type electron-nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) spectroscopy, and the results compared with structure-known class I enzymes, CPD photolyase and (6-4) photolyase. By ENDOR spectroscopy, the local environment of the flavin adenine dinucleotide (FAD) cofactor is probed by virtue of proton hyperfine couplings that report on the electron-spin density at the positions of magnetic nuclei. Despite the amino-acid sequence dissimilarity as compared to class I enzymes, the results indicate similar binding motifs for FAD in the class II photolyases. Furthermore, the photoreduction kinetics starting from the FAD cofactor in the fully oxidized redox state, FAD(ox), have been probed by UV/Vis spectroscopy. In Escherichia coli (class I) CPD photolyase, light-induced generation of FADH from FAD(ox), and subsequently FADH(-) from FADH, proceeds in a step-wise fashion via a chain of tryptophan residues. These tryptophans are well conserved among the sequences and within all known structures of class I photolyases, but completely lacking from the equivalent positions of class II photolyase sequences. Nevertheless, class II photolyases show photoreduction kinetics similar to those of the class I enzymes. We propose that a different, but also effective, electron-transfer cascade is conserved among the class II photolyases. The existence of such electron transfer pathways is supported by the observation that the catalytically active fully reduced flavin state obtained by photoreduction is maintained even under oxidative conditions in all three classes of enzymes studied in this contribution.
20228626	Plant height is one of the most important traits in crop improvement. Therefore revealing the mechanism of plant elongation and controlling plant height in accordance with breeding object is important. In this study we analyzed a novel dwarf mutant, ssd1, of which phenotype is different from typical GA- or BR-related dwarf phenotype. ssd1 exhibits pleiotropic defects in elongation of various organs such as stems, roots, leaves, and flowers. ssd1 also shows abnormal cell files and shapes, which suggests defects of normal cell division in the mutant. Map-based cloning and complementation test demonstrated that the dwarf phenotype in ssd1 mutant was caused by insertion of retrotransposon in a gene, which encodes plant-specific protein with unknown biochemical function. A BLAST search revealed that SSD1-like genes exist in diverse plant species, including monocots and dicots, but not fern and moss. Our results demonstrate that SSD1 controls plant elongation by controlling cell division in higher plants.
20229166	Three frog species (Limnodynastes tasmaniensis, Limnodynastes fletcheri and Litoria raniformis) were surveyed in rice bays of the Coleambally Irrigation Area (CIA), NSW, Australia, during the rice-growing seasons of 2005/2006 and 2006/2007. A total external morphological abnormality index of 7.0% was observed in frogs of the CIA (n=1,209). The types and frequencies of abnormalities were typical of reports from agricultural areas with ectrodactyly being the most common aberration. A relatively low abnormality index of 1.2% was observed in L. raniformis (n=87) compared to indices of 7.1% and 8.2% observed in L. fletcheri (n=694) and L. tasmaniensis (n=428), respectively. No conclusive evidence was found of unnaturally high rates of intersex, gonadal maldevelopment or unbalanced sex ratios in any species. Rice bay surface waters differed significantly in mean pesticide concentrations of atrazine and metolachlor on farms growing rice and corn compared to farms with rice as the sole crop. However, the similar abnormality indices observed in recent metamorphs emerging from these two farm types provided no evidence to suggest a link between larval exposure to the measured pesticides and developmental malformations.
20229250	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, is a devastating disease of rice worldwide. Among the 85 mapped resistance (R) genes against blast, 13 have been cloned and characterized. However, how these genes originated and how they evolved in the Oryza genus remains unclear. We previously cloned the rice blast R-genes Pi2, Pi9, and Piz-t, and analyzed their genomic structure and evolution in cultivated rice. In this study, we determined the genomic sequences of the Pi2/9 locus in four wild Oryza species representing three genomes (AA, BB and CC). The number of Pi2/9 family members in the four wild species ranges from two copies to 12 copies. Although these genes are conserved in structure and categorized into the same subfamily, sequence duplications and subsequent inversions or uneven crossing overs were observed, suggesting that the locus in different wild species has undergone dynamic changes. Positive selection was found in the leucine-rich repeat region of most members, especially in the largest clade where Pi9 is included. We also provide evidence that the Pi9 gene is more related to its homologues in the recurrent line and other rice cultivars than to those in its alleged donor species O. minuta, indicating a possible origin of the Pi9 gene from O. sativa. Comparative sequence analysis between the four wild Oryza species and the previously established reference sequences in cultivated rice species at the Pi2/9 locus has provided extensive and unique information on the genomic structure and evolution of a complex R-gene cluster in the Oryza genus.
20229301	Betaine as one of osmolytes plays an important role in osmoregulation of most high plants. Betaine aldehyde dehydrogenase (BADH) is the second enzyme involved in betaine biosynthesis. The BADH gene from a halophite,Atriplex hortensis, was transformed into rice cultivars by bombarment method. Totally 192 transgenic rice plants were obtained and most of them had higher salt tolerance than controls. Among transgenic plants transplanted in the saline pool containing 0.5% NaCl in a greenhouse, 22 survived. 13 of which set seeds, and the frequency of seed setting was very low, only 10%. But the controls could not grow under the same condition. The results of BADH activity assay and Northern blot showed that the BADH gene was integrated into chromosomes of transgenic plants and expressed.
20229347	Photoperiod-sensitive genic male sterile (PSGMS) rice is a very useful germplasm for hybrid rice development. It was first found as a spontaneous mutant in a japonica cultivar 'Nongken 58.pms3 on chromosome 12 was determined to be the locus where the original PSGMS mutation occurred, changing the normal cultivar Nongken 58 to PS-GMS Nongken 58S. Large amounts of RAPD and AFLP analyses were also conducted for the fine mapping of the pms3 genomic region, which resulted in 4 molecular markers linked to pms3. Although these markers somewhat increased the marker density of this region, the pms3 locus is still located in a marker-sparse region.
20229389	Models that explain the oxygen isotope enrichment in leaf water (and biomass) treat the relationship between the kinetic fractionation that occurs during evapotranspiration and the stomatal conductance in an empirical way. Consequently, the isotopic enrichment is always predicted to decrease with increasing stomatal conductance, regardless of the experimental evidence to the contrary. We explain why and suggest an alternative method to reconcile theory and experiment. We support this with our experimental data on rice and groundnut plants.
20231330	Contrary to the increasing amount of knowledge regarding the functional roles of glycine-rich RNA-binding proteins (GRPs) in Arabidopsis thaliana in stress responses, the physiological functions of GRPs in rice (Oryza sativa) currently remain largely unknown. In this study, the functional roles of six OsGRPs from rice on the growth of E. coli and plants under cold or freezing stress conditions have been evaluated. Among the six OsGRPs investigated, OsGRP1, OsGRP4, and OsGRP6 were shown to have the ability to complement cold-sensitive BX04 E. coli mutant cells under low temperature conditions, and this complementation ability was correlated closely with their DNA- and RNA-melting abilities. Moreover, OsGRP1 and OsGRP4 rescued the growth-defect of a cold-sensitive Arabidopsis grp7 mutant plant under cold and freezing stress, and OsGRP6 conferred freezing tolerance in the grp7 mutant plant, in which the expression of AtGRP7 was suppressed and is sensitive to cold and freezing stresses. OsGRP4 and OsGRP6 complemented the defect in mRNA export from the nucleus to the cytoplasm in grp7 mutants during cold stress. Considering that AtGRP7 confers freezing tolerance in plants and harbours RNA chaperone activity during the cold adaptation process, the results of the present study provide evidence that GRPs in rice and Arabidopsis are functionally conserved, and also suggest that GRPs perform a function as RNA chaperones during the cold adaptation process in monocotyledonous plants, as well as in dicotyledonous plants.
20232286	Information on the insecticide susceptibility of striped stem borer, Chilo suppressalis (Walker), is essential for an effective pest management programme. An early detection of resistance development can prompt the modification of current control methods and increase the lifespan of insecticides through the rotation of chemicals with different modes of action. In this study, the susceptibility of this pest in Taiwan to four classes of insecticides has been examined. Over 1000-fold resistance to carbofuran was detected in C. suppressalis collected from Chiayi and Changhua prefectures, with estimated LC(50) values of > 3 mg cm(-2). In addition, 61-fold resistance to cartap was found in the Chiayi population. On the other hand, all tested populations of rice stem borer were still relatively susceptible to chlorpyrifos, fipronil and permethrin, with LC(50) values ranging from 30 to 553 ng cm(-2). Chilo suppressalis populations collected from the central parts of Taiwan have a higher degree of resistance to the tested insecticides than those from northern areas. The occurrence of high resistance to carbofuran in the Chiayi and Changhua areas suggests that this compound should be replaced with chemicals having a different mode of action, such as chlorpyrifos, fipronil and permethrin, to which low cross-resistance has been detected.
20233095	A series of tests were conducted to determine the susceptibility of eggs and neonates of the lesser grain borer Rhyzopertha dominica (F.) (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae = Bostrychidae), exposed to the insect growth regulator, methoprene, on filter paper and on rough rice. In the first test, the hatch rate of eggs exposed on filter paper treated with methoprene at the label rate of 0.003 mg [AI]/cm(2) when used as a surface treatment in structures was 52.0 +/- 7.3% compared to 93.0 +/- 3.3% on untreated controls. In the second test, eggs were exposed to a dose-response series of 0.00003 to 0.03 mg[AI]/cm(2). Egg hatch was directly proportional to concentration and ranged from 85.0 +/- 2.0% on untreated controls to 26.7 +/- 8.3% at the highest concentration tested. In the third test, 1 ppm of methoprene was sprayed on long grain rough rice (paddy) (Cocodrie variety), and then individual kernels were cracked and an egg of R. dominica was placed directly on the kernel. On untreated rice kernels, 67.5 +/- 11.6% of the eggs hatched and were able to bore inside, and all of these larvae emerged as adults. In contrast, 40.0 +/- 5.3% of the eggs placed on treated cracked kernels were able to develop to where the larvae were visible through X-ray detection, but none emerged as adults. In the final test, newly-emerged adults were exposed on rough rice treated with 1 ppm methoprene. The number of eggs from adults on untreated rice was 52.1 +/- 4.3 eggs per female, and on treated rice the average egg production was 12.5 +/- 1.1 eggs per female. Methoprene applied on a surface or on rough rice affected development of egg hatch also reduced fecundity of parent adults exposed on the treated rough rice.
20233101	Thirty four species of mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae) were collected across three phytogeographic zones; tropical (300 to 1000 m), sub tropical (1000 to 2000 m) and temperate (2000 to 3000 m) in the Garhwal region of India. They included 5 genera: Aedes, Anopheles, Armigeres, Culex and Uranotaenia. Of these, the immature forms of 23 species were recovered from different breeding habitats. The larval habitats were seepage pools, river beds, rice fields, tanks, forest pools, ditches, streams, rock holes, tree holes, intradomestic containers and shallow pits. Three groups and two separate individual species were associated, based on breeding habitat similarity by means of cluster analysis. The characters taken into consideration for classification were natural/artificial, temporary/permanent, shady/lighted, vegetation, movement and turbidity. Breeding habitats such as streams and rock holes were the richest habitats shared by 18 mosquito species followed by seepage pools harboring 16 species of mosquitoes. The lowest species diversity (6 species) was recorded from shallow pits. Generally, all the collected species were found in natural habitats in quiet/stagnant conditions at a depth of 0.1-0.5 m. Generally, the maximum number of species preferred partially shady and temporary water habitats. Moderate vegetation and clear water habitats also had a diversity of mosquito species. Culex mimeticus Noe and Anopheles maculatus Theobald had the highest association coefficient (0.941) followed by Anopheles stephensi Liston and Anopheles vagus Donitz (0.884). The highest negative association (-0.30) was found between the species of Culex vishnui Theobald and Culex brevipalpis (Giles). There were a few species of mosquitoes for which only immatures were collected. Phytogeographically, the zones of lower elevation shared higher species abundance than the higher elevation.
20233336	One of the major limitations in rice production is a shortage of water. Conventional breeding as well as emerging genetic engineering methods may be used to improve plant stress tolerance. Some transcription factors regulating stress responsive genes have become important target genes for improving plant drought tolerance. Previously, we have shown that a tomato ethylene response factor (ERF) protein TSRF1 that binds to GCC box in the promoters of pathogenesis-related genes positively regulates pathogen resistance in tomato and tobacco, but negatively regulates osmotic response in tobacco. Here, we further report the ability of TSRF1 to regulate osmotic and drought responses in monocot rice. TSRF1 improves the osmotic and drought tolerance of rice seedlings without growth retardation, as determined by physiological analyses of root and leaf growth, leaf water loss and survival rate under stress. In addition, the amounts of proline and soluble sugars in transgenic rice lines increase by 30%-60% compared to those in wild-type plants. Moreover, TSRF1 activates the expression of a putative rice abscisic acid (ABA) synthesis gene SDR, resulting in enhanced ABA sensitivity in transgenic rice. TSRF1 also increases the expression of MYB, MYC and proline synthesis and photosynthesis-related genes, probably by binding to dehydration responsive element and GCC boxes in promoters of the target genes. These results demonstrate that TSRF1 enhances the osmotic and drought tolerance of rice by modulating the increase in stress responsive gene expression.
20234049	Despite its importance in plant growth and development, the auxin biosynthetic pathway has remained elusive. In this study, we analyzed hormone series transcriptome data from AtGenExpress in Arabidopsis and found that aminoethoxyvinylglycine (AVG) had the strongest anti-auxin activity. We also identified other effective compounds such as L-amino-oxyphenylpropionic acid (AOPP) through additional screening. These inhibitors shared characteristics in that they inhibited pyridoxal enzymes and/or aminotransferases. They reduced endogenous IAA levels in both monocots and dicots. L-AOPP inhibited root development of Arabidopsis in main root elongation, gravitropism, root skewing and root hair formation. This inhibition was generally recovered after exogenous IAA treatment, and the recovery was almost completely to the level of non-inhibited seedlings. The compounds inhibited conversion from tryptophan to indole-3-pyruvic acid in enzyme extracts from Arabidopsis and wheat. Our data collectively suggest that the inhibitors directly blocked auxin biosynthesis, and that the major target site was tryptophan aminotransferase. This enzyme probably makes up one of the major biosynthesis pathways conserved among higher plants. Each inhibitor, however, demonstrated a different action spectrum in shoot and root of rice and tomato, indicating diversity in biosynthesis pathways between organs and species. Our results provide novel insights into auxin biosynthesis and action, and uncover structural characteristics of auxin biosynthesis inhibitors.
20234878	Stigma and spikelet characteristics play an essential role in hybrid seed production. A mini-core of 90 accessions developed from USDA rice core collection was phenotyped in field grown for nine traits of stigma and spikelet and genotyped with 109 DNA markers, 108 SSRs plus an indel. Three major clusters were built upon Rogers' genetic distance, indicative of indicas, and temperate and tropical japonicas. A mixed linear model combining PC-matrix and K-matrix was adapted for mapping marker-trait associations. Resulting associations were adjusted using false discovery rate technique. We identified 34 marker-trait associations involving 22 SSR markers for eight traits. Four markers were associated with single stigma exsertion (SStgE), six with dual exsertion (DStgE) and five with total exsertion. RM5_Chr1 played major role indicative of high regression with not only DStgE but also SStgE. Four markers were associated with spikelet length, three with width and seven with L/W ratio. Numerous markers were co-associated with multiple traits that were phenotypically correlated, i.e. RM12521_Chr2 associated with all three correlated spikelet traits. The co-association should improve breeding efficiency because single marker could be used to assist breeding for multiple traits. Indica entry 1032 (cultivar 50638) and japonica entry 671 (cultivar Linia 84 Icar) with 80.65 and 75.17% of TStgE, respectively are recommended to breeder for improving stigma exsertion. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11032-009-9290-y) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
20235016	This study reports the results in 34 dogs with protein-losing enteropathy (PLE). Rottweilers and Yorkshire Terriers were overrepresented. Most obvious clinical signs and laboratory findings were diarrhea (91 %), weight loss (74 %), anorexia (56 %), lethargy (51 %), ascites (18 %), ascites without gastrointestinal signs (9 %), hypoalbuminemia (<12 g/l, 65 %) and hypocholesterolemia (51 %). Ultrasonographic findings included intestinal wall thickening in 71 %, abnormal echogenicity in 68 %, and no abnormalities in 29 %. The most important endoscopic findings were diffuse and profound dilation of villi in 35 %, a more granular appearing mucous membrane in 32 % and a "rice-grain" appearing villus dilation in 12 %. In 21 % of the dogs the mucous membrane was considered unremarkable. Histologically, 62 % had lymphangiectasia, in 86 % of these associated with moderate to severe inflammatory infiltrates, and in 71 % associated with dilatation of intestinal crypts. In 68 % of the dogs lesions in intestinal crypts were found, 35 % of these without lymphangiectasia. In 12 % of the dogs the histological findings failed to explain intestinal protein loss. This study shows the important prevalence of crypts' lesions in protein-losing enteropathy.
20235529	Shallow groundwater, often rich in arsenic (As), is widely used for irrigation of dry season boro rice in Bangladesh. In the long term, this may lead to increasing As contents in rice paddy soils, which threatens rice yields, food quality, and human health. The objective of this study was to quantify gains and losses of soil As in a rice paddy field during irrigation and monsoon flooding over a three-year period. Samples were collected twice a year on a 3D-sampling grid to account for the spatially heterogeneous As distribution within the soil. Gains and losses of soil As in different depth segments were calculated using a mass-balance approach. Annual As input with irrigation water was estimated as 4.4 +/- 0.4 kg ha(-1) a(-1). Within the top 40 cm of soil, the mean As accumulation over three years amounted to 2.4 +/- 0.4 kg ha(-1) a(-1), implying that on average 2.0 kg ha(-1) a(-1) were lost from the soil. Seasonal changes of soil As showed that 1.05 to 2.1 kg ha(-1) a(-1) were lost during monsoon flooding. The remaining As-loss (up to 0.95 kg ha(-1) a(-1)) was attributed to downward flow with percolating irrigation water. Despite these losses, we estimate that total As within the top 40 cm of soil at our field site would further increase by a factor of 1.5 to 2 by the year 2050 under current cultivation practices.
20235744	With the chemical shift selective (CHESS) method, lingering fat signals remain because of the effects of nonuniformity in the magnetic field. One method to reduce this phenomenon is the use of pads filled with rice (rice pad), but the improvement in fat suppression effects with rice pads, as compared with conventional perfluorocarbon liquid pads, remains unclear. To investigate whether rice pads are superior to perfluorocarbon liquid pads in improving fat suppression effects in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) examination of the knee. Subjects were 10 healthy volunteers (5 men, 5 women; aged 20-45 years), from whom images taken using the CHESS methods were collected. Two images were taken for each subject; one with a rice pad placed under the knee and the knee flexed, and the other with a perfluorocarbon liquid pad placed under the knee and the knee flexed. Images were visually assessed by one radiologist and one radiologic technologist. Kendall's W and Wilcoxon signed rank test were used for statistical comparisons. Of the 20 evaluations made by the 2 observers, scores for images obtained with the rice pad were higher than those with the perfluorocarbon liquid pad in 18 cases, while the scores were equal in 2 cases. Images with the rice pad were not inferior in any cases. The mean score for visual assessment was 4.65 for the rice pad and 3.0 for the perfluorocarbon liquid pad. The rice pad was thus confirmed to be superior to the perfluorocarbon liquid pad (P=0.0039). The rice pad exhibited better performance in improving the fat suppression effect. Thus, the rice pad is a superior product that is inexpensive and simple to use.
20236552	Lectins are a class of carbohydrate-binding proteins. They play roles in various biological processes. However, little is known about their evolutionary history and their functions in plant stress regulation. The availability of full genome sequences from various plant species makes it possible to perform a whole-genome exploration for further understanding their biological functions. Higher plant genomes encode large numbers of lectin proteins. Based on their domain structures and phylogenetic analyses, a new classification system has been proposed. In this system, 12 different families have been classified and four of them consist of recently identified plant lectin members. Further analyses show that some of lectin families exhibit species-specific expansion and rapid birth-and-death evolution. Tandem and segmental duplications have been regarded as the major mechanisms to drive lectin expansion although retrogenes also significantly contributed to the birth of new lectin genes in soybean and rice. Evidence shows that lectin genes have been involved in biotic/abiotic stress regulations and tandem/segmental duplications may be regarded as drivers for plants to adapt various environmental stresses through duplication followed by expression divergence. Each member of this gene superfamily may play specialized roles in a specific stress condition and function as a regulator of various environmental factors such as cold, drought and high salinity as well as biotic stresses. Our studies provide a new outline of the plant lectin gene superfamily and advance the understanding of plant lectin genes in lineage-specific expansion and their functions in biotic/abiotic stress-related developmental processes.
20236813	In a double-blind, randomized, controlled, multicentric study, the study compared the efficacy of a specific adapted formula (lactose-free, high-mineral, low-osmolarity formula, containing rice and pectin fortified with Saccharomyces boulardii) in the management of infants with acute diarrhea with a standard formula used to feed healthy infants from birth. Seventy infants with an average age of 163 days+/-11.7 suffering from acute diarrhea with an average of 6.6+/-0.4 stools per day received, after randomization, either a standard (control) formula (n=36) or an adapted lactose-free formula fortified with S. boulardii (26mg/100ml; n=34). The duration of the diarrhea was defined as the time needed until the occurrence of the first normal stool after the last liquid stool. At inclusion, the age, weight, and number of stools per day were the same in the two groups. There were 15 infants with rotavirus in the treated group and 13 in the control group. The duration of the diarrhea from time of inclusion was significantly reduced in the treated group (35.4+/-3.7h) versus the control group (67.1+/-5h; p<0.001), In both groups, with or without rotavirus, the duration of diarrhea did not depend on the presence or absence of rotavirus but only on the treatment. The average daily weight gain was significantly higher in the treated group compared with the control group (74.2+/-26.4g versus 23.7+/-6.7g; p<0.05). The oral rehydration solution consumption was, however, higher in the control group than in the treated group; the consumption of formula was higher in the treated group, but these differences were not significant. The number of stools as of Day 4 remained significantly higher in the control group than in the treated group. After 6.5 days, almost no S. boulardii was found in the stools. In moderately dehydrated infants (<10 %), the use of a specially designed formula, containing S. boulardii (Novalac AD+/Diarinova+), significantly shortens the duration of diarrhea and allows quicker weight regain than a standard formula.
20237113	Research on manganese (Mn) toxicity and tolerance indicates that Mn toxicity develops apoplastically through increased peroxidase activities mediated by phenolics and Mn, and Mn tolerance could be conferred by sequestration of Mn in inert cell compartments. This comparative study focuses on Mn-sensitive barley (Hordeum vulgare) and Mn-tolerant rice (Oryza sativa) as model organisms to unravel the mechanisms of Mn toxicity and/or tolerance in monocots. Bulk leaf Mn concentrations as well as peroxidase activities and protein concentrations were analysed in apoplastic washing fluid (AWF) in both species. In rice, Mn distribution between leaf compartments and the leaf proteome using 2D isoelectric focusing IEF/SDS-PAGE and 2D Blue native BN/SDS-PAGE was studied. The Mn sensitivity of barley was confirmed since the formation of brown spots on older leaves was induced by low bulk leaf and AWF Mn concentrations and exhibited strongly enhanced H2O2-producing and consuming peroxidase activities. In contrast, by a factor of 50, higher Mn concentrations did not produce Mn toxicity symptoms on older leaves in rice. Peroxidase activities, lower by a factor of about 100 in the rice leaf AWF compared with barley, support the view of a central role for these peroxidases in the apoplastic expression of Mn toxicity. The high Mn tolerance of old rice leaves could be related to a high Mn binding capacity of the cell walls. Proteomic studies suggest that the lower Mn tolerance of young rice leaves could be related to Mn excess-induced displacement of Mg and Fe from essential metabolic functions. The results provide evidence that Mn toxicity in barley involves apoplastic lesions mediated by peroxidases. The high Mn tolerance of old leaves of rice involves a high Mn binding capacity of the cell walls, whereas Mn toxicity in less Mn-tolerant young leaves is related to Mn-induced Mg and Fe deficiencies.
20237444	A total of 204 rodents comprising 14 host species from four different habitats were examined. Nine rodent species were trapped from the forest and another five species were trapped from the coastal, rice field and urban habitats. Rattus rattus diardii (67%) was the predominant rodent species examined. Fifty six (47.3%) rodents and shrews were found to be infested with at least one of the 20 species of ectoparasite recovered. Mites belonging to the family Trombiculidae were the predominant ectoparasite species recovered. Ticks belonging to the family Ixodidae were recovered mainly from the forest dwelling rodents. Polyplax spinulosa and Hoplopleura pacifica were the common lice species found infesting the urban rodents. Xenopsylla cheopis was the only flea species recovered. The following ecto-parasites have been incriminated as important vectors or as mechanical carriers for the transmission of zoonotic diseases: Ixodes granulatus, Dermacentor sp. Haemaphysalis sp., Amblyomma sp. Ascoschoengastia indica, Leptotrombidium deliense, Ornithonyssus bacoti, Laelaps nuttalli, H. pacifica, P. spinulosa and Xenopsylla cheopis. Urban and forest rodents were significantly higher in ecto-parasitic infestation, compared to rats from the other two habitats. However, there was no significant statistical association between male and female rodents infested with ectoparasites.
20237598	Phenotypic plasticity is an adaptive mechanism adopted by plants in response to environmental heterogeneity. Cultivated and wild species adapt in contrasting environments; however, it is not well understood how genetic changes responsible for phenotypic plasticity were involved in crop evolution. We investigated the genetic control of phenotypic plasticity in Asian cultivated (Oryza sativa) and wild rice (O. rufipogon) under 5 environmental conditions (2 nutrient and 3 density levels). Quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis was conducted for traits affecting plant architecture and biomass production. By analysing the phenotypic means, QTLs of large effects were detected as a cluster on chromosome 7 under all the environmental conditions investigated; this might have contributed to transitions of plant architecture during domestication, as reported previously. Multiple QTLs of plasticity were also found within this QTL cluster, demonstrating that allele-specific environmental sensitivity might control plasticity. Furthermore, QTLs controlling plasticity without affecting phenotypic means were also identified. The mode of action and direction of allele effects of plasticity QTLs varied depending on the traits and environmental signals. These findings confirmed that cultivated and wild rice show distinctive genetic differentiation for phenotypic plasticity, which might have contributed to adaptation under contrasting environmental heterogeneity during the domestication of rice.
20237600	Comparative mapping is an important component of map-based cloning in large-genome cereal species. We describe evidence of a segmental chromosomal duplication harbouring CONSTANS-like genes in barley that predates the divergence of the Oryzoideae (rice) and Pooideae (brachypodium, barley, wheat) clades, and discuss the implications of such events for comparative mapping and QTL cloning in temperate cereal crops.
20237919	A multi-residue method has been developed and validated for the simultaneous quantification and confirmation of around 130 multiclass pesticides in orange, nectarine and spinach samples by GC-MS/MS with a triple quadrupole analyzer. Compounds have been selected from different chemical families including insecticides, herbicides, fungicides and acaricides. Three isotopically labeled standards have been used as surrogates in order to improve accurate quantitation. Samples were extracted by using accelerated solvent extraction (ASE) with ethyl acetate. In the case of spinach, an additional clean-up step by gel permeation chromatography was applied. Determination was performed by GC-MS/MS in electron ionization mode acquiring two MS/MS transitions for each analyte. The intensity ratio between quantitation transition (Q) and identification transition (q) was used as confirmatory parameter (Q/q ratio). Accuracy and precision were evaluated by means of recovery experiments in orange, nectarine, and spinach samples spiked at two concentration levels (0.01 and 0.05 mg/kg). Recoveries were, in most cases, between 70% and 120% and RSD were below 20%. The limits of quantification objective for which the method was satisfactorily validated in the three samples matrices were for most pesticides 0.01 mg/kg. Matrix effects over the GC-MS/MS determination were tested by comparison of reference standards in pure solvent with matrix-matched standards of each matrix. Data obtained showed enhancement of signal for the majority of analytes in the three matrices investigated. Consequently, in order to reduce the systematic error due to this effect, quantification was performed using matrix-matched standard calibration curves. The matrix effect study was extended to other food matrices such as raisin, paprika, cabbage, pear, rice, legume, and gherkin, showing in all cases a similar signal enhancement effect.
20243107
20246909
20248279
20249657
20253333
20258116
20261334
20261764
2026273	Multiple genes have been found to encode families of protein kinases in animals and yeasts. Little is known of the diversity of protein kinase families in plants. We have used the polymerase chain reaction to identify members of protein kinase gene family in rice. We have cloned eight partial cDNA sequences from which deduced amino acid sequences contained conserved sequences or amino acid residues characteristic of catalytic domains of eukaryotic protein serine/threonine kinases. Our results suggest that there is great complexity in the protein kinase gene family in plants and that protein phophorylation may play an as important role in plants as in in other eukaryotes.
2026716	Pyrolysis of agricultural waste to produce fuel gas involves formation of tars as noxious by-products. In this paper the qualitative analysis of tars formed during pyrolysis of rice husks is presented, based on identification by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry and interpolation of retention times on a polyaromatic hydrocarbon index scale. The influence of some reaction parameters on product formation is briefly discussed.
20272809
20277451
20280104
20280187
20280631
20281608
20286280
20286316
20289992
20291363
20298243	The identification of genes underlying complex quantitative traits such as grain yield by means of conventional genetic analysis (positional cloning) requires the development of several large mapping populations. However, it is possible that phenotypically related, but more extreme, allelic variants generated by mutational studies could provide a means for more efficient cloning of QTLs (quantitative trait loci). In barley (Hordeum vulgare), with the development of high-throughput genome analysis tools, efficient genome-wide identification of genetic loci harbouring mutant alleles has recently become possible. Genotypic data from NILs (near-isogenic lines) that carry induced or natural variants of genes that control aspects of plant development can be compared with the location of QTLs to potentially identify candidate genes for development--related traits such as grain yield. As yield itself can be divided into a number of allometric component traits such as tillers per plant, kernels per spike and kernel size, mutant alleles that both affect these traits and are located within the confidence intervals for major yield QTLs may represent extreme variants of the underlying genes. In addition, the development of detailed comparative genomic models based on the alignment of a high-density barley gene map with the rice and sorghum physical maps, has enabled an informed prioritization of 'known function' genes as candidates for both QTLs and induced mutant genes.
20298594	Transcription factors (TFs) regulate gene expression by interacting with promoters of their target genes and are classified into families based on their DNA-binding domains. Genes coding for TFs have been identified in the sequences of model plant genomes. The rice (Oryza sativa spp. japonica) genome contains 2,384 TF gene models, which represent the mRNA transcript of a locus, classed into 63 families. We have created an extensive list of wheat (Triticum aestivum L) TF sequences based on sequence homology with rice TFs identified and classified in the Database of Rice Transcription Factors (DRTF). We have identified 7,112 wheat sequences (contigs and singletons) from a dataset of 1,033,960 expressed sequence tag and mRNA (ET) sequences available. This number is about three times the number of TFs in rice so proportionally is very similar if allowance is made for the hexaploidy of wheat. Of these sequences 3,820 encode gene products with a DNA-binding domain and thus were confirmed as potential regulators. These 3,820 sequences were classified into 40 families and 84 subfamilies and some members defined orphan families. The results were compiled in the Database of Wheat Transcription Factor (wDBTF), an inventory available on the web http://wwwappli.nantes.inra.fr:8180/wDBFT/. For each accession, a link to its library source and its Affymetrix identification number is provided. The positions of Pfam (protein family database) motifs were given when known. wDBTF collates 3,820 wheat TF sequences validated by the presence of a DNA-binding domain out of 7,112 potential TF sequences identified from publicly available gene expression data. We also incorporated in silico expression data on these TFs into the database. Thus this database provides a major resource for systematic studies of TF families and their expression in wheat as illustrated here in a study of DOF family members expressed during seed development.
20298852	In this paper a novel solid phase extraction method to determine Co(II) and Ni(II) using silica gel-polyethylene glycol (Silica-PEG) as a new adsorbent is described. The method is based on the adsorption of cobalt and nickel ions in alkaline media on polyethylene glycol-silica gel in a mini-column, elution with nitric acid and determination by flame atomic absorption spectrometry. The adsorption conditions such as NaOH concentration, sample volume and amount of adsorbent were optimized in order to achieve highest sensitivity. The calibration graph was linear in the range of 0.5-200.0ngmL(-1) for Co(II) and 2.0-100.0ngmL(-1) for Ni(II) in the initial solution. The limit of detection based on 3S(b) was 0.37ngmL(-1) for Co(II) and 0.71ngmL(-1) for Ni(II). The relative standard deviations (R.S.D.) for ten replicate measurements of 40ngmL(-1) of Co(II), and Ni(II) were 3.24 and 3.13%, respectively. The method was applied to determine Co(II) and Ni(II) in black tea, rice flour, sesame seeds, tap water and river water samples.
20299211	To investigate the optimal conditions for the production of Cordyceps sinensis by the submerged culture method, glucosamine and exopolysaccharide (EPS) productivities were determined in culture broth containing different carbon sources, principally rice bran and citrus peel. An optimal medium composition (1.5% rice bran, 0.5% molasses, 3% CSL, 0.1% KH(2)PO(4), and 0.05% MgSO(4)) and the optimal condition (25 degrees C and 5-6 d culture time) for high EPS productivity with potent immune-stimulating activities were obtained. The addition of citrus peel to the culture of C. sinensis under the optimized conditions improved EPS productivity and glucosamine content. Furthermore, anti-complementary activity was higher (58.0-80.8%) using citrus peel as compared to no addition of citrus peel (48.2-68.7%). Antioxidant activity (AEAC value) of the citrus peel culture was high (284.3-384.6 mg/100g) compared to that of the culture without citrus peel (142.8-219.5mg/100g), indicating that the citrus peel helped enhance the anti-complementary and antioxidant activities of C. sinensis.
20299442	Diel (24 h) leaf growth patterns were differently affected by temperature variations and the circadian clock in several plant species. In the monocotyledon Zea mays, leaf elongation rate closely followed changes in temperature. In the dicotyledons Nicotiana tabacum, Ricinus communis, and Flaveria bidentis, the effect of temperature regimes was less obvious and leaf growth exhibited a clear circadian oscillation. These differences were related neither to primary metabolism nor to altered carbohydrate availability for growth. The effect of endogenous rhythms on leaf growth was analysed under continuous light in Arabidopsis thaliana, Ricinus communis, Zea mays, and Oryza sativa. No rhythmic growth was observed under continuous light in the two monocotyledons, while growth rhythmicity persisted in the two dicotyledons. Based on model simulations it is concluded that diel leaf growth patterns in mono- and dicotyledons result from the additive effects of both circadian-clock-controlled processes and responses to environmental changes such as temperature and evaporative demand. Apparently very distinct diel leaf growth behaviour of monocotyledons and dicotyledons can thus be explained by the different degrees to which diel temperature variations affect leaf growth in the two groups of species which, in turn, depends on the extent of the leaf growth control by internal clocks.
20300208	Monocots are known to respond differently to auxinic herbicides; hence, certain herbicides kill broadleaf (i.e., dicot) weeds while leaving lawns (i.e., monocot grasses) intact. In addition, the characters that distinguish monocots from dicots involve structures whose development is controlled by auxin. However, the molecular mechanisms controlling auxin biosynthesis, homeostasis, transport, and signal transduction appear, so far, to be conserved between monocots and dicots, although there are differences in gene copy number and expression leading to diversification in function. This article provides an update on the conservation and diversification of the roles of genes controlling auxin biosynthesis, transport, and signal transduction in root, shoot, and reproductive development in rice and maize.
20300745	Opportunities for environmental contamination by the insecticide etofenprox are increasing as its uses expand from primarily indoor residential to rice cultivation and mosquito control. To provide toxicity data for sensitive saltwater species, effects of etofenprox were assessed using three life stages of the estuarine grass shrimp, Palaemonetes pugio. Adults, larvae, and embryos were tested in aqueous exposures, while adults and larval shrimp were also tested in the presence of sediment. In addition, sublethal cellular stress biomarkers, glutathione and lipid peroxidation, were examined. Larval shrimp was the most sensitive life stage, with 96-h median lethal concentration (LC(50)) of 0.89 microg/l, compared with 1.26 microg/l for adults and 100 microg/l for embryos. Presence of sediment significantly decreased toxicity of etofenprox to both adult and larval shrimp. Etofenprox exposure (100 micog/l) increased time to hatch in embryos. Lipid peroxidation levels were reduced in adult and larval shrimp after 96 h exposure to etofenprox, while no effect on glutathione was detected. The results of this study provide new information on the toxicity of etofenprox to estuarine invertebrates. These data may prove beneficial to the regulation of this pesticide and management of its uses in coastal areas.
20302114	The present study aims to identify the expression of transgene in given rice plant samples in certain conditions. To avoid external noise caused by temperature change and water-loss, field spectrum was collected with ASD field spectrometer in natural state. The study calculated the mean spectrum of samples as main data set analyzed which were controlled by inner clustering coefficient to ensure data quality. By mean spectrum, the noise from random distinctions in few individual cultivators, which could not be expressed in the class stably, could be weakened even with filtering. With the help of parameters, such as red edge and green peak, this study gave qualitative spectral differences between transgenic samples and their parents. The results show that the transgenes in rice plant were expressed and influenced the samples. Moreover, it was found that the parameters of area are more suitable for describing the differences/changes of the samples, while PRI and SR-PRI are more sensitive to indicate them. Most of the above results could be found on the continuum-removal spectrum curve of samples. These conclusive results demonstrate that hyperspectral remote sensing technique has good prospects and application potential in transgene expression detection and monitoring, especially in plant breeding process.
20302117	The timing, convenient and reliable method of diagnosing and monitoring crop nutrition is the foundation of scientific fertilization management. However, this expectation cannot be fulfilled by traditional methods, which always need excessively work on sampling, detection and analysis and even exhibit lagging timing. In the present study, stable images for potassium-stressed leaf were acquired using stationary scanning, and object-oriented segmentation technique was adopted to produce image objects. Afterwards, nearest neighbor classifier integrated the spectral, shape and topologic information of image objects to precisely identify characteristics of potassium-stressed features. Diagnosing with image, the 3rd expanded leaves are superior to the 1st expanded leaves. In order to assess the result, 250 random samples and an error matrix were applied to undertake the accuracy assessment of identification. The results showed that the overall accuracy and kappa coefficient was 96.00% and 0.9453 respectively. The study offered an information extraction method for quantitative diagnosis of rice under potassium stress.
20302341	The environmental impact of rice agriculture is poorly studied in developing countries, mainly due to limitations of the analytical capacity. Here, we report the development of a clomazone enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay as a fast and cost-effective tool to monitor the dissipation of this herbicide along the harvest. Antibodies were prepared using different strategies of hapten conjugation, and the best hapten/antibody pair was selected. It proved to be a reliable tool to measure the herbicide in the 2.0-20 ng/mL range in field samples, with excellent correlation with high-performance liquid chromatography results. The assay was used to study the dissipation of the herbicide in the floodwater of experimental rice paddies in Uruguay. Large differences in the residual amounts of herbicide were observed depending on the flooding practices. Because of its robustness and simplicity, the assay may be useful to delineate and monitor management practices that can contribute to minimizing the release of the herbicide in the environment.
20302604	Rice is known to be sensitive to soil water deficit and evaporative demand, with a greatest sensitivity of lowland-adapted genotypes. We have analysed the responses of plant water relations and of leaf elongation rate (LER) to soil water status and evaporative demand in seven rice genotypes belonging to different species, subspecies, either upland- or lowland-adapted. In the considered range of soil water potential (0 to -0.6 MPa), stomatal conductance was controlled in such a way that the daytime leaf water potential was similar in well-watered, droughted or flooded conditions (isohydric behaviour). A low sensitivity of LER to evaporative demand was observed in the same three conditions, with small differences between genotypes and lower sensitivity than in maize. The sensitivity of LER to soil water deficit was similar to that of maize. A tendency towards lower sensitivities was observed in upland than lowland genotypes but with smaller differences than expected. We conclude that leaf water status and leaf elongation of rice are not particularly sensitive to water deficit. The main origin of drought sensitivity in rice may be its poor root system, whose effect was alleviated in the study presented here by growing plants in pots whose soil was entirely colonized by roots of all genotypes.
20303126	We assessed the relationship of the dietary glycemic index (GI), glycemic load (GL), and intake of carbohydrate and rice, and risk of mortality from stroke and its subtypes. The cohort consisted of 12,561 men and 15,301 women residing in Takayama, Japan, in 1992. At the baseline, a food frequency questionnaire was administered; and the dietary GI, GL, and intake of carbohydrates and rice were estimated. Deaths from stroke occurring in the cohort were prospectively noted until 1999 with data from the office of the National Vital Statistics. The risk of mortality from stroke was assessed with a Cox proportional hazard model after adjusting for age; body mass index; smoking status; physical activity; history of hypertension; education; and intake of total energy, alcohol, dietary fiber, salt, and total fat. The risk of stroke subtypes was assessed in the age-adjusted model. The hazard ratios of total stroke comparing the highest vs the lowest quartiles of the dietary GI were 0.78 (95% confidence interval [CI], 0.41-1.47) with P(trend) = .50 in men and 2.09 (95% CI, 1.01-4.31) with P(trend) = .10 in women. Among women, the association was also significant with the risk of ischemic stroke (hazard ratio = 2.45; 95% CI, 1.01-5.92; P(trend) = .03); and a significant positive trend was also observed between dietary GL and mortality from hemorrhagic stroke (P(trend) = .05). The current study implies that diets with a high dietary GI increase the risk of mortality from stroke among Japanese women.
20304786	High temperature impairs grain filling by inhibiting the deposition of storage materials such as starch and protein. To comprehend its impact on grain filling metabolism in rice (Oryza sativa), levels of metabolites and transcripts related to central pathways of metabolism were simultaneously determined in developing caryopses exposed to high temperature (33 degrees C/28 degrees C) and a control temperature (25 degrees C/20 degrees C) during the milky stage. A capillary electrophoresis-based metabolomic analysis revealed that high temperature increased the accumulation of sucrose and pyruvate/ oxaloacetate-derived amino acids and decreased levels of sugar phosphates and organic acids involved in glycolysis/gluconeogenesis and the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle, respectively. A transcriptomic analysis using a whole genome-covering microarray unraveled the possible metabolic steps causing the shortage of storage materials under the elevated temperature. Starch deposition might be impaired by down-regulation of sucrose import/degradation and starch biosynthesis, and/or up-regulation of starch degradation as well as inefficient ATP production by an inhibited cytochrome respiration chain, as indicated by the response of gene expression to high temperature. Amino acid accumulation might be attributed to the heat-stable import of amino acids into the caryopsis and/or repression of protein synthesis especially the tRNA charging step under high temperature. An atlas showing the effect of high temperature on levels of metabolites and gene expression in the central metabolic pathways is presented.
20305017	Understanding the dynamics of eukaryotic transcriptome is essential for studying the complexity of transcriptional regulation and its impact on phenotype. However, comprehensive studies of transcriptomes at single base resolution are rare, even for modern organisms, and lacking for rice. Here, we present the first transcriptome atlas for eight organs of cultivated rice. Using high-throughput paired-end RNA-seq, we unambiguously detected transcripts expressing at an extremely low level, as well as a substantial number of novel transcripts, exons, and untranslated regions. An analysis of alternative splicing in the rice transcriptome revealed that alternative cis-splicing occurred in approximately 33% of all rice genes. This is far more than previously reported. In addition, we also identified 234 putative chimeric transcripts that seem to be produced by trans-splicing, indicating that transcript fusion events are more common than expected. In-depth analysis revealed a multitude of fusion transcripts that might be by-products of alternative splicing. Validation and chimeric transcript structural analysis provided evidence that some of these transcripts are likely to be functional in the cell. Taken together, our data provide extensive evidence that transcriptional regulation in rice is vastly more complex than previously believed.
20305104	Beriberi is caused by thiamine deficiency. Early 20th century epidemics in Japan were attributed to rice contaminated by citreoviridin mycotoxin. Our investigation of an outbreak of beriberi in Brazil showed an association of beriberi with the consumption of poor quality subsistence farming rice, although, unlike other investigators of this outbreak, we did not identify citreoviridin producing fungi in the implicated rice.
20305120	In flowering plants, sink tissues rely on transport of carbohydrates from photosynthetic tissues (sources) for nutrition and energy. However, how sugar partitioning in plants is regulated at the molecular level during development remains unknown. We have isolated and characterized a rice (Oryza sativa) mutant, carbon starved anther (csa), that showed increased sugar contents in leaves and stems and reduced levels of sugars and starch in floral organs. In particular, the csa mutant had reduced levels of carbohydrates in later anthers and was male sterile. The csa mutant had reduced accumulation of (14)C-labeled sugars in anther sink tissue. CSA was isolated by map-based cloning and was shown to encode an R2R3 MYB transcription factor that was expressed preferentially in the anther tapetal cells and in the sugar-transporting vascular tissues. In addition, the expression of MST8, encoding a monosaccharide transporter, was greatly reduced in csa anthers. Furthermore, CSA was found to be associated in vivo and in vitro with the promoter of MST8. Our findings suggest that CSA is a key transcriptional regulator for sugar partitioning in rice during male reproductive development. This study also establishes a molecular model system for further elucidation of the genetic control of carbon partitioning in plants.
20305121	Suppression of inflorescence leaf, or bract, growth has evolved multiple times in diverse angiosperm lineages, including the Poaceae and Brassicaceae. Studies of Arabidopsis thaliana mutants have revealed several genes involved in bract suppression, but it is not known if these genes play a similar role in other plants with suppressed bracts. We identified maize (Zea mays) tassel sheath (tsh) mutants, characterized by the loss of bract suppression, that comprise five loci (tsh1-tsh5). We used map-based cloning to identify Tsh1 and found that it encodes a GATA zinc-finger protein, a close homolog of HANABA TARANU (HAN) of Arabidopsis. The bract suppression function of Tsh1 is conserved throughout the grass family, as we demonstrate that the rice (Oryza sativa) NECK LEAF1 (NL1) and barley (Hordeum vulgare) THIRD OUTER GLUME (TRD) genes are orthologous with Tsh1. Interestingly, NL1/Tsh1/TRD expression and function are not conserved with HAN. The existence of paralogous NL1/Tsh1/TRD-like genes in the grasses indicates that the NL1/Tsh1/TRD lineage was created by recent duplications that may have facilitated its neofunctionalization. A comparison with the Arabidopsis genes regulating bract suppression further supports the hypothesis that the convergent evolution of bract suppression in the Poaceae involved recruitment of a distinct genetic pathway.
20305269	Using a large dataset (10 022 assays) obtained from public plant microarray databases, we developed the CoP database for associating co-expressed gene modules with biological information such as gene ontology terms and, if available, metabolic pathway names. The Confeito algorithm developed previously in our laboratory, which is suitable to calculate the interconnectivity between genes in co-expressed gene network, was applied to extract co-expressed gene modules. The database includes the gene modules for Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress) and seven crops, Glycine max (soybean), Hordeum vulgare (barley), Oryza sativa (rice), Populus trichocarpa (poplar), Triticum aestivum (wheat), Vitis vinifera (grape) and Zea mays (maize). The CoP database is available at: http://webs2.kazusa.or.jp/kagiana/cop0911/.
20305271	To our knowledge the present paper shows for the first time the kinetic parameters of all the three starch branching enzyme (BE) isozymes, BEI, BEIIa and BEIIb, from rice with both amylopectin and synthetic amylose as glucan substrate. The activities of these BE isozymes with a linear glucan amylose decreased with a decrease in the molar size of amylose, and no activities of BEIIa and BEIIb were found when the degree of polymerization (DP) of amylose was lower than at least 80, whereas BEI had an activity with amylose of a DP higher than approximately 50. Detailed analyses of debranched products from BE reactions revealed the distinct chain length preferences of the individual BE isozymes. BEIIb almost exclusively transferred chains of DP7 and DP6 while BEIIa formed a wide range of short chains of DP6 to around DP15 from outer chains of amylopectin and amylose. On the other hand, BEI formed a variety of short chains and intermediate chains of a DP <or=40 by attacking not only outer chains but also inner chains of branched glucan while BEIIa or BEIIb could only scarcely or could not attack inner chains, respectively. The comprehensive in vitro studies revealed different enzymatic characteristics of the three BE isozymes and give a new insight into the distinct roles of individual BE isozymes in amylopectin biosynthesis in the endosperm. Based on these results, the functional distinction and interaction of BE isozymes during amylopectin biosynthesis in cereal endosperm is discussed.
20305274	Using the basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) algorithm to search the Oryza sativa (Japanese rice) nucleotide sequence databases with the Arabidopsis thaliana UDP-galactose transporter sequences as queries, we found a number of sequences encoding putative O. sativa UDP-galactose transporters. From these, we cloned four putative UDP-galactose transporters, designated OsUGT1, 2, 3 and 4, which exhibited high sequence similarity with Arabidopsis thaliana UDP-galactose transporters. OsUGT1, 2, 3 and 4 consisted of 350, 337, 345 and 358 amino acids, respectively, and all of these proteins were predicted to have multiple transmembrane domains. To examine the UDP-galactose transporter activity of the OsUGTs, we introduced the OsUGTs' expression vectors into UDP-galactose transporter activity-deficient Lec8 cells. Our results showed that transfection with OsUGT1, 2 and 3 resulted in recovery of the deficit phenotype of Lec8 cells, but transfection with OsUGT4 did not. The results of an in vitro nucleotide sugar transport assay of OsUGTs, carried out with a yeast expression system, suggested that OsUGT4 is a UDP-glucose transporter rather than a UDP-galactose transporter. Although plants have multiple UDP-galactose transporter genes, phylogenic analysis indicates that plant UDP-galactose transporter genes are not necessarily evolutionary related to each other.
20307959	Glutinous rice starch (GRS) is a biopolymer used widely in the food industry but not at all in the pharmaceutical industry. There are several ways to modify this biopolymer. Physical modification is simple and cheap because it requires no chemicals or biological agents. The aim of this study was to characterize the physicochemical properties of a spray dried glutinous rice starch (SGRS) produced from pregelatinized GRS. The surface morphology changed from an irregular to concave spherical shape as revealed by Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM). SGRS was almost amorphous as determined by X-ray Diffraction (XRD) spectroscopy. The water molecules became linked through hydrogen bonds to the exposed hydroxyl group of amorphous SGRS as determined by Near Infrared (NIR) spectroscopy. Then, SGRS formed a colloid gel matrix with water and developed a highly viscous gelatinous form as determined using Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC) and a stress control type rheometer. In addition, SGRS can swell and produce a gelatinous surface barrier like a hydrophilic matrix biopolymer which controls drug release. Therefore, a novel application of SGRS is as a sustained release modifier for direct compression tablets in the pharmaceutical industry.
2030915	HIVEN86A is an inducible member of a set of cellular proteins that specifically bind to the kappa B enhancer (Franza et al., 1987; Franza, 1988; Franza, 1990; Ballard et al., 1989; Bohnlein et al., 1988). This enhancer motif has been detected in numerous cellular and viral transcription control domains (Boshart et al., 1985; Sen & Baltimore, 1986; Nabel & Baltimore, 1987). Recently, cDNAs have been cloned (Kieran et al., 1990; Baldwin & Sharp, 1987) that encode the 50 kD DNA binding subunit of murine NF-kappa B (for review: Leonardo & Baltimore, 1989) and the closely related human kappa binding factor (KBF-1) (Kimura et al., 1986; Baldwin & Sharp, 1987). A 350 amino acid domain at the N-terminus of these proteins was found to be homologous with the v-rel oncogene from the avian reticuloendotheliosis virus, strain T (REV-T), as well as a maternal effect gene, dorsal (Kieran et al., 1990; Ghosh et al., 1990). Dorsal is known to activate transcription of certain Drosophila genes (Rushlow et al., 1987). The v-Rel oncoprotein has been identified as a transcriptional activator (Gelinas & Temin, 1988; Hannink & Temin, 1989; Bull et al., 1990) in certain assay systems and shown to be induced by the tumor promoter, phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in avian cells (for review: Rice & Gilden, 1988). HIVEN86A is also inducible by PMA (Franza et al., 1987; Franza, 1988; Franza, 1990). We now demonstrate that the protein product of the human c-rel proto-oncogene is structurally identical to HIVEN86A.
20309821	Response regulators are part of a two-component regulatory system. The type-A Arabidopsis response regulators act as negative regulators. To understand the function of type-A response regulators in the model monocot plant, rice (Japonica cultivar-group: Zhonghua11), we overexpressed two type-A OsRR genes, OsRR3 and OsRR5 (pACT1:OsRR3 and pACT1:OsRR5). We hoped to gain insight into their molecular function in cytokinin-signaling pathways. Both OsRR3 and OsRR5 overexpressors had longer roots and more lateral roots compared with Zhonghua11, when treated with exogenous cytokinin. Using callus formation and chlorophyll content assays, we found that Zhonghua11 was more sensitive to cytokinin compared with other cultivars of rice, expressing high transcript levels of OsRR3 and OsRR5. The expression of most type-A OsRR genes was repressed by OsRR3 and OsRR5 overexpression. However, semi-quantitative RT-PCR showed that three type-A OsRR genes showed increased expression. Our results suggest that both OsRR3 and OsRR5 mainly act as negative regulators of cytokinin signaling, as indicated by the reduced sensitivity of OsRR3 and OsRR5 overexpressors to exogenous cytokinins.
20331531	The common neurodegenerative disorder known as Alzheimer's disease is characterized by cerebral neuritic plaques of amyloid beta (Abeta) peptide. Plaque formation is related to the highly aggregative property of this peptide, because it polymerizes to form insoluble plaques or fibrils causing neurotoxicity. Here, we expressed Abeta peptide as a new causing agent to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress to study ER stress occurred in plant. When the dimer of Abeta(1-42) peptide was expressed in maturing seed under the control of the 2.3-kb glutelin GluB-1 promoter containing its signal peptide, a maximum of about 8 mug peptide per grain accumulated and was deposited at the periphery of distorted ER-derived PB-I protein bodies. Synthesis of Abeta peptide in the ER lumen severely inhibited the synthesis and deposition of seed storage proteins, resulting in the generation of many small and abnormally appearing PB bodies. This ultrastructural change was accounted for by ER stress leading to the accumulation of aggregated Abeta peptide in the ER lumen and a coordinated increase in ER-resident molecular chaperones such as BiPs and PDIs in Abeta-expressing plants. Microarray analysis also confirmed that expression of several BiPs, PDIs and OsbZIP60 containing putative transmembrane domains was affected by the ER stress response. Abeta-expressing transgenic rice kernels exhibited an opaque and shrunken phenotype. When grain phenotype and expression levels were compared among transgenic rice grains expressing several different recombinant peptides, such detrimental effects on grain phenotype were correlated with the expressed peptide causing ER stress rather than expression levels.
20331906	Gamma-oryzanol (OR), a phytosteryl ferulate mixture extracted from rice bran oil, has a wide spectrum of biological activities in particular, it has antioxidant properties. The regulatory effect of gamma-oryzanol rich fraction (ORF) extracted and fractionated from rice bran using supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) in comparison with commercially available OR on 14 antioxidant and oxidative stress related genes was determined in rat liver. Rats were subjected to a swimming exercise program for 10 weeks to induce stress and were further treated with either ORF at 125, 250 and 500 mg/kg or OR at 100 mg/kg in emulsion forms for the last 5 weeks of the swimming program being carried out. The GenomeLab Genetic Analysis System (GeXPS) was used to study the multiplex gene expression of the selected genes. Upon comparison of RNA expression levels between the stressed and untreated group (PC) and the unstressed and untreated group (NC), seven genes were found to be down-regulated, while seven genes were up-regulated in PC group compared to NC group. Further treatment of stressed rats with ORF at different doses and OR resulted in up-regulation of 10 genes and down regulation of four genes compared to the PC group. Gamma-oryzanol rich fraction showed potential antioxidant activity greater than OR in the regulation of antioxidants and oxidative stress gene markers.
20332806	The dissection of the genetic architecture of quantitative traits, including the number and locations of quantitative trait loci (QTL) and their main and epistatic effects, has been an important topic in current QTL mapping. We extend the Bayesian model selection framework for mapping multiple epistatic QTL affecting continuous traits to dynamic traits in experimental crosses. The extension inherits the efficiency of Bayesian model selection and the flexibility of the Legendre polynomial model fitting to the change in genetic and environmental effects with time. We illustrate the proposed method by simultaneously detecting the main and epistatic QTLs for the growth of leaf age in a doubled-haploid population of rice. The behavior and performance of the method are also shown by computer simulation experiments. The results show that our method can more quickly identify interacting QTLs for dynamic traits in the models with many numbers of genetic effects, enhancing our understanding of genetic architecture for dynamic traits. Our proposed method can be treated as a general form of mapping QTL for continuous quantitative traits, being easier to extend to multiple traits and to a single trait with repeat records.
20333229	Rice is one of the most important crops, feeding more than half of the world population. There are two cultivated species, the African rice Oryza glaberrima and the Asian rice O. sativa. Although the African species is gradually replaced by O. sativa in most of African rice agrosystems, this species represents an important reservoir of genes of agronomical interest. Their exploitation for the development of modern African rice varieties requires a good understanding of the genetic relationships between the two cultivated species. We took advantage of the recent availability of the sequence of the chromosome 3 short arm of O. glaberrima to estimate the date of radiation between O. glaberrima and O. sativa lineages, using all the long terminal repeat (LTR)-retrotransposons as paleogenomic markers. We first demonstrated that in two distinct lineages, LTR-retrotransposons mutate at the same rate. Based on LTR-retrotransposons shared by both species in orthologous position, we then estimated that O. glaberrima and O. sativa progenitors diverged 1.2 Ma. This constitutes one of the first studies using such a large sample of transposable elements to reconstruct the phylogeny of species. Given the number of genome sequencing projects, there is no doubt that such approach will allow to resolve phylogenetic incongruities. The application of this method to other plant genomes will also facilitate further understanding of evolution of LTR-retrotransposons and eventually of the whole genome in divergent plant lineages.
20333793	To determine the glycemic index (GI) and glycemic load (GL) values of Chinese traditional foods in Hong Kong. Fifteen healthy subjects (8 males and 7 females) volunteered to consume either glucose or one of 23 test foods after 10-14 h overnight fast. The blood glucose concentrations were analyzed immediately before, 15, 30, 45, 60, 90 and 120 min after food consumption using capillary blood samples. The GI value of each test food was calculated by expressing the incremental area under the blood glucose response curve (IAUC) value for the test food as a percentage of each subject's average IAUC value for the glucose. The GL value of each test food was calculated as the GI value of the food multiplied by the amount of the available carbohydrate in a usual portion size, divided by 100. Among all the 23 Chinese traditional foods tested, 6 of them belonged to low GI foods (Tuna Fish Bun, Egg Tart, Green Bean Dessert, Chinese Herbal Jelly, Fried Rice Vermicelli in Singapore-style, and Spring Roll), 10 of them belonged to moderate GI foods (Baked Barbecued Pork Puff, Fried Fritter, "Mai-Lai" Cake, "Pineapple" Bun, Fried Rice Noodles with Sliced Beef, Barbecue Pork Bun, Moon Cakes, Glutinous Rice Ball, Instant Sweet Milky Bun, and Salted Meat Rice Dumpling), the others belonged to high GI foods (Fried Rice in Yangzhou-Style, Sticky Rice Wrapped in Lotus Leaf, Steamed Glutinous Rice Roll, Jam and Peanut Butter Toast, Plain Steamed Vermicelli Roll, Red Bean Dessert, and Frozen Sweet Milky Bun). The GI and GL values for these Chinese traditional foods will provide some valuable information to both researchers and public on their food preference.
20334186	The labeling of foods containing ingredients derived from soybean is recommended in Japan because of an increasing number of patients who are allergic to soybeans. To ensure proper labeling, a novel sandwich ELISA kit for the determination of soybean protein in processed foods (FASTKIT Ver. II, "Soybean", Nippon Meat Packers, Inc.; "soy kit") has been developed. Five types of incurred samples (model processed foods: rice gruel, sausage, sweet adzuki bean soup, sweet potato cake, and tomato sauce) containing 10 microg soybean soluble protein/g food were prepared for use in interlaboratory evaluations of the soy kit. The soy kit displayed a sufficient RSD(R) value (interlaboratory precision: 9.3-13.4% RSD(R)) and a high level of recovery (97-114%) for all the incurred samples. The RSD(R) value for the incurred samples was mostly < 4.8%. The results of this interlaboratory evaluation suggest that the soy kit can be used as a precise and reliable tool for the determination of soybean proteins in processed foods.
20334345	Fibrinolytic enzyme activity was observed during cultivation of Bacillus subtilis YJ1 in a medium containing 1% skim milk, 1% rice husk, 0.5% NaCl, and 0.25% glucose. It was purified to electrophoretical homogeneity after CM-sepharose FF chromatography. The specific activity and yield were 1791.9 FU/mg and 9.5%, respectively. This purified fibrinolytic enzyme had M of 27.5 kDa, optimal temperature and pH at 50 degrees C and 8.5, respectively. It was stable at pH 6.0-10.0 and 10-40 degrees C and inhibited by Fe(3+), Hg(2+), Cu(2+), Zn(2+), and PMSF. Compared the N terminal of amino acids and full DNA sequence with those in NCBI, it was considered to be a nattokinase.
20334477	Rice is the staple diet in many Asian countries. Current endoscopic guidelines advice a 6 h fast for solids and a 4 h fast for liquids before the procedure. However, these guidelines focus on a Western type diet. The aim of the study was to determine if a 6 h fast for rice is sufficient prior to upper gastrointestinal endoscopy (UGIE). After informed consent, 212 patients referred for UGIE, who had no alarm symptoms, were randomized into two groups in preparation for UGIE. Fasting 6 h after a rice meal (R6) or fasting 10 h after a rice meal (R10). All meals contained lentils and an egg, and were isocaloric. Endoscopic vision was graded as poor, average, or good. In the R10 group (n = 107) vision was poor in 2 (1.9%), average in 7 (6.5%), and good in 98 (91.6%). While in the R6 group (n = 105) vision was poor in 30 (28.6%), average in 19 (18.1%), good in 56 (53.3%). The observed difference of percentages among the two groups for endoscopic vision was significant (M-H Chi-Square for trend = 25.67; df = 1; p < 0.001). Fasting for 6 h after a rice based meal seems inadequate for UGIE. Fasting for 10 h significantly improves endoscopic vision. Current guidelines need to be re-evaluated for populations where rice is the staple diet.
20335032	The microbiological and physicochemical parameters were monitored for 12 weeks during composting of five piles (1.5 x 1.0 x 0.80 m(3)) containing mainly rice straw, soybean residue and enriched with rock phosphate. Two treatments were inoculated with buffalo's manure or composite inoculum, two were supplemented with vinasse and inoculated with either the composite inoculum or with both, the last one was served as a control. Four typical phases of composting were observed during the bioprocess: short initial mesophilic phase followed by, thermophilic, cooling and maturation phases. Physicochemical changes confirmed the succession of microbial populations depending on the temperature of each phase in all treatments. Intense microbial activities led to organic matter mineralization and simultaneously narrow C/N ratios. Inoculation of composting mixtures enhanced the biodegradation of recalcitrant substances. The duration of exposure to a temperature above 55 degrees C for at least 16 consecutive days was quite enough to sanitize the produced composts. After 84 days, all composts reached maturity as indicated by various parameters.
20335401	Drought poses a serious threat to the sustainability of rice (Oryza sativa) yields in rain-fed agriculture. Here, we report the results of a functional genomics approach that identified a rice NAC (an acronym for NAM [No Apical Meristem], ATAF1-2, and CUC2 [Cup-Shaped Cotyledon]) domain gene, OsNAC10, which improved performance of transgenic rice plants under field drought conditions. Of the 140 OsNAC genes predicted in rice, 18 were identified to be induced by stress conditions. Phylogenic analysis of the 18 OsNAC genes revealed the presence of three subgroups with distinct signature motifs. A group of OsNAC genes were prescreened for enhanced stress tolerance when overexpressed in rice. OsNAC10, one of the effective members selected from prescreening, is expressed predominantly in roots and panicles and induced by drought, high salinity, and abscisic acid. Overexpression of OsNAC10 in rice under the control of the constitutive promoter GOS2 and the root-specific promoter RCc3 increased the plant tolerance to drought, high salinity, and low temperature at the vegetative stage. More importantly, the RCc3:OsNAC10 plants showed significantly enhanced drought tolerance at the reproductive stage, increasing grain yield by 25% to 42% and by 5% to 14% over controls in the field under drought and normal conditions, respectively. Grain yield of GOS2:OsNAC10 plants in the field, in contrast, remained similar to that of controls under both normal and drought conditions. These differences in performance under field drought conditions reflect the differences in expression of OsNAC10-dependent target genes in roots as well as in leaves of the two transgenic plants, as revealed by microarray analyses. Root diameter of the RCc3:OsNAC10 plants was thicker by 1.25-fold than that of the GOS2:OsNAC10 and nontransgenic plants due to the enlarged stele, cortex, and epidermis. Overall, our results demonstrated that root-specific overexpression of OsNAC10 enlarges roots, enhancing drought tolerance of transgenic plants, which increases grain yield significantly under field drought conditions.
20336024	Using a cell-based cytotoxicity assay three new cytotoxic azaphilones, including two stereoisomers and designated monapurones A-C (1-3), were isolated from the extract of Monascus purpureus-fermented rice (red yeast rice). Their structures were elucidated by detailed interpretation of spectroscopic and chemical data. The relative configurations were assigned on the basis of analysis of NOE data, and the absolute configurations were determined by direct comparison of their CD spectra with those of known azaphilones and chemical correlations. In the in vitro assays, monapurones A-C (1-3) showed selective cytotoxicity against human cancer cell line A549 with IC50 values of 3.8, 2.8 and 2.4 microM respectively, while exhibiting no significant toxicity to normal MRC-5 and WI-38 cells at the same concentration.
20336383	Salinity and alkalinity are the two main environmental factors that limit rice production. Better understanding of the mechanisms responsible for salinity and alkaline stress tolerance would allow researchers to modify rice to increase its resistance to salinity and alkaline stress. MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are ~21-nucleotide RNAs that are ubiquitous regulators of gene expression in eukaryotic organisms. Some miRNAs acts as an important endogenous regulator in plant responses to abiotic stressors. miR393 is a conservative miRNA family that occurs in a variety of different plants. The two members of the miR393 family found in rice are named osa-MIR393 and osa-MIR393b. We found that the osa-MIR393 expression level changed under salinity and alkaline stress, whereas that of osa-MIR393b did not. Target genes of osa-MIR393 were predicted, and some of these putative targets are abiotic related genes. Furthermore, we generated transgenic rice and Arabidopsis thaliana that over-expressed osa-MIR393, and the phenotype analysis showed that these transgenic plants were more sensitive to salt and alkali treatment compared to wild-type plants. These results illustrate that over-expression of osa-MIR393 can negatively regulate rice salt-alkali stress tolerance.
20336477	Stomata are an essential land plant innovation whose patterning and density are under genetic and environmental control. Recently, several putative ligands have been discovered that influence stomatal density, and they all belong to the epidermal patterning factor-like family of secreted cysteine-rich peptides. Two of these putative ligands, EPF1 and EPF2, are expressed exclusively in the stomatal lineage cells and negatively regulate stomatal density. A third, EPFL6 or CHALLAH, is also a negative regulator of density, but is expressed subepidermally in the hypocotyl. A fourth, EPFL9 or STOMAGEN, is expressed in the mesophyll tissues and is a positive regulator of density. Genetic evidence suggests that these ligands may compete for the same receptor complex. Proper stomatal patterning is likely to be an intricate process involving ligand competition, regional specificity, and communication between tissue layers. EPFL-family genes exist in the moss Physcomitrella patens, the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, and rice, Oryza sativa, and their sequence analysis yields several genes some of which are related to EPF1, EPF2, EPFL6, and EPFL9. Presence of these EPFL family members in the basal land plants suggests an exciting hypothesis that the genetic components for stomatal patterning originated early in land plant evolution.
20337559	Several physical and chemical attributes of rice were evaluated to determine which character would be best to use to assess multiple rice varieties for resistance to the lesser grain borer, Rhyzopertha dominica (F.). Laboratory tests were conducted on single varieties of long-, short-, and medium grain-rice to develop procedures and methodologies that could be used for large-scale screening studies. Progeny production of R. dominica was positively correlated with the percentage of broken hulls. Although kernel hardness, amylose content, neonate preference for brown rice, and adult emergence from neonates varied among the three rice varieties tested they did not appear to be valid indicators of eventual progeny production, and may not be useful predictors of resistance or susceptibility. Soundness and integrity seem to be the best characters to use for varietal screening studies with R. dominica.
20337976	Infants diagnosed with allergy to cow's milk protein (CMP) are fed extensively hydrolysed cow's milk formulas, modified soy formulas or even amino acid-based formulas. Hydrolysed rice protein infant formulas have become available and have been shown to be well tolerated by these infants. A prospective open, randomized clinical study to compare the clinical tolerance of a new hydrolysed rice protein formula (HRPF) with an extensively hydrolysed CMP formula (EHF) in the feeding of infants with IgE-mediated cow's milk allergy. Ninety-two infants (46 boys and 46 girls, mean age 4.3 months, range 1.1-10.1 months) diagnosed with IgE-mediated cow's milk allergy were enrolled in the study. Clinical tolerance to the formula products was tested. Clinical evaluation included skin prick tests with whole cow's milk, soya and rice as well as antigens of CMP (beta-lactoglobulin, alpha-lactalbumin, casein and bovine seroalbumin), HRPF and EHF and specific IgE determinations to CMP using CAP technology. Patients were randomized to receive either an EHF based on CMP or a new HRPF. Follow-up was at 3, 6, 12, 18 and 24 months. Growth parameters were measured at each visit. One infant showed immediate allergic reaction to EHF, but no reaction was shown by any infant in the HRPF group. The number of infants who did not become tolerant to CMP during the study was not statistically different between the two groups. Measurement of IgE levels of infants allergic to CMP during the study showed no significant differences between the two formula groups. Growth parameters were in the normal range and similar between groups. In this study, the HRPF was well tolerated by infants with moderate to severe symptoms of IgE-mediated CMP allergy. Children receiving this formula showed similar growth and development of clinical tolerance to those receiving an EHF. In accordance with current guidelines, this HRPF was tolerated by more than 90% of children with CMP allergy and therefore could provide an adequate and safe alternative to CMP-hydrolysed formulas for these infants.
20339079	This study examines the impact of two decades of neoliberal policy reform on food production and household livelihood security in three West African countries. The rice sectors in The Gambia, Côte d'Ivoire, and Mali are scrutinized as well as cotton and its relationship to sorghum production in Mali. Although market reforms were intended to improve food production, the net result was an increasing reliance on imported rice. The vulnerability of the urban populations in The Gambia and Côte d'Ivoire became especially clear during the 2007-2008 global food crisis when world prices for rice spiked. Urban Mali was spared the worst of this crisis because the country produces more of its own rice and the poorest consumers shifted from rice to sorghum, a grain whose production increased steeply as cotton production collapsed. The findings are based on household and market surveys as well as on an analysis of national level production data.
20339580	African Rice (Oryza glaberrimaSteud.): Lost Crop of the Enslaved Africans Discovered in Suriname. African rice (Oryza glaberrima Steud.) was introduced to the Americas during the slave trade years and grown by enslaved Africans for decades before mechanical milling devices facilitated the shift towards Asian rice (O. sativa L.). Literature suggests that African rice is still grown in Guyana and French Guiana, but the most recent herbarium voucher dates from 1938. In this paper, evidence is presented that O. glaberrima is still grown by Saramaccan Maroons both for food and ritual uses. Saramaccan informants claim their forefathers collected their first "black rice" from a mysterious wild rice swamp and cultivated these seeds afterwards. Unmilled spikelets (grains with their husk still attached) are sold in small quantities for ancestor offerings, and even exported to the Netherlands to be used by Maroon immigrants. Little is known of the evolution of O. glaberrima, before and after domestication. Therefore, more research is needed on the different varieties of rice and other "lost crops" grown by these descendants of enslaved Africans who escaped from plantations in the 17th and 18th centuries and maintained much of their African cultural heritage in the deep rainforest.
20339925	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades play a remarkably crucial role in plants. It has been studied intensively in model plants Arabidopsis, tobacco and rice. However, the function of MAPKs in maize (Zea mays L.) has not been well documented. ZmSIMK1 (Zea mays salt-induced mitogen-activated protein kinase 1) is a previously identified MAPK gene in maize. In this research, we charactered ZmSIMK1 and showed that ZmSIMK1 was involved in Arabidopsis salt stress. The genomic organization of ZmSIMK1 gene and its expression in maize have been analyzed. In order to investigate the function of ZmSIMK1, we generated transgenic Arabidopsis constitutively overexpressing ZmSIMK1. Ectopic expression of ZmSIMK1 in Arabidopsis resulted in increased resistance against salt stress. Importantly, ZmSIMK1-overexpressing Arabidopsis exhibited constitutive expression of stress-responsive marker genes, RD29A and P5CS1. Furthermore, RD29A and P5CS1 were upregulated under salt stress. These results suggest that ZmSIMK1 may play an important role in plant salt stress.
2034221	Chitinase, which catalyzes the hydrolysis of the beta-1,4-N-acetyl-D-glucosamine linkages of the fungal cell wall polymer chitin, is involved in inducible defenses of plants. A basic chitinase genomic sequence was isolated from a rice (Oryza sativa L.) genomic library using a bean chitinase gene fragment as a probe. The complete nucleotide sequence of the rice chitinase RCH10 gene was determined, and shown to contain an open reading frame with no introns, encoding a polypeptide of 336 amino acids. This polypeptide consists of a 21 amino acid signal peptide, a hevein domain, and a chitinase catalytic domain. The RCH10 gene has 63% identity at the nucleotide level and 75% identity at the amino acid level with chitinase genes from dicotyledonous plants such as bean, potato, and tobacco. A gene fusion of trpE and the coding region of RCH10 expressed in Escherichia coli gave a product that reacted with antiserum to bean chitinase, confirming the identity of RCH10 as a rice chitinase gene. Primer extension analysis identified two transcription start sites 53 bp and 55 bp upstream from the translation initiation codon. The 5' flanking region contains TATA and CAAT boxes, and the 3' region contains an AATAA polyadenylation signal. Southern blot hybridization indicated that there is a family of chitinase genes in the rice genome. Northern blot analysis showed that the RCH10 chitinase gene is induced in suspension cultured cells by a fungal cell wall elicitor. Rice chitinase transcripts accumulate to a high level in roots, but only low levels are found in stem and leaf tissue.
2034259	Twenty seven isolates of Stachybotrys chartarum, S. albipes, S. kampalensis and S. microspora from Egypt and Eastern Europe were tested for production of macrocyclic trichothecenes. Twenty of the 27 isolates, grown on rice seeds, were toxic to brine shrimp larvae. Based on TLC and HPLC analyses, 5 macrocyclic trichothecenes (verrucarin J, roridin E, satratoxins F, G & H) as well as trichoverrols were identified. When grown in liquid culture on rice extract medium, only 3 isolates were toxic and produced verrucarin J, roridin E and satratoxins G & H. Extracts from mycelial mats were more toxic than culture filterates of two isolates grown on rice extract and both contained the same macrocyclic trichothecenes (285.5 mg/4 L), in addition to trichoverrols A & B (31 mg/4 L) found in mycelial mats only. When grown on 3% sucrose Czapek's medium supplemented with peptone and yeast extract (still cultures), all isolates were non-toxic to brine shrimp and no trichothecenes could be detected in the extracts.
20343872
20345096	The purpose of this study is to determine the growth performance and immune characteristics of early weaned piglets receiving rice bran expressing porcine lactoferrin as a feed additive. Full-length cDNA encoding porcine lactoferrin (LF) driven by a rice actin promoter was transformed into rice plants, and its integration into the rice genome was verified by Southern blot analysis. The expression of recombinant LF (rLF) in whole grains and rice bran was also confirmed, and the amount of rLF accumulated in rice bran was estimated by immunoblot assay to be approximately 0.1% of rice bran weight. An iron-binding assay showed that the rLF retained iron-binding activity and the binding capacity of 1 mg/mL rLF would be saturated by 100 microM of FeCl(3). Thirty-six early weaned piglets at 21 days old were randomly selected into two groups and fed a diet containing 5% transgenic rice bran containing 50 mg/kg rLF (rLF group) and 5% rice bran (control group) to investigate the piglets' growth performance and immune characteristics. The results showed no significant difference in growth performance between the groups during the feeding period. However, the aerobic bacteria, anaerobic bacteria, and coliform counts in the cecal contents of the rLF-fed group were significantly lower than those of the control group. Additional immune characteristics such as the IgG concentration in the rLF group was higher than the control group at the 28th day, but leukocyte counts and the peripheral lymphocyte ratio remained similar. In summary, porcine LF expressed in rice bran, a byproduct of rice, can be used as a functional additive to improve antimicrobial capabilities and IgG concentration of early weaned piglets.
20345637	Lodging, the permanent displacement of crop plants from their vertical because of root or shoot failure, is a major yield constraint of the gluten free, panicle bearing cereal teff. The objective of this paper was to analyse the causes of lodging of teff by using, modifying and validating conventional biomechanical models. The model parameters were obtained from a field trial with two contrasting teff cultivars, using novel in situ and laboratory measurements under wet and dry conditions. Cross-species model validation was done with rice (Oryza sativa). Teff is more susceptible to root lodging than to shoot lodging, although the data indicated that shoot strength is also insufficient. Hence, simultaneously breeding for both improved root anchorage and shoot strength is advocated. The study showed that the lodging model, derived for the spike-bearing cereal wheat, needed modifications in order to be able to deal with panicle-bearing plants such as teff and rice. Water adhering to plants owing to rain or dew increased calculated lodging susceptibility. To prevent underestimation of lodging susceptibility, future lodging research should be done under completely wet conditions (water saturated soil and wetted shoots).
20345643	*Plant pathogenic bacteria of the genus Xanthomonas inject transcription activator-like effector (TALe) proteins that bind to and activate host promoters, thereby promoting disease or inducing plant defense. TALes bind to corresponding UPT (up-regulated by TALe) promoter boxes via tandemly arranged 34/35-amino acid repeats. Recent studies uncovered the TALe code in which two amino acid residues of each repeat define specific pairing to UPT boxes. *Here we employed the TALe code to predict potential UPT boxes in TALe-induced host promoters and analyzed these via beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter and electrophoretic mobility shift assays (EMSA). *We demonstrate that the Xa13, OsTFX1 and Os11N3 promoters from rice are induced directly by the Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae TALes PthXo1, PthXo6 and AvrXa7, respectively. We identified and functionally validated a UPT box in the corresponding rice target promoter for each TALe and show that box mutations suppress TALe-mediated promoter activation. Finally, EMSA demonstrate that code-predicted UPT boxes interact specifically with corresponding TALes. *Our findings show that variations in the UPT boxes of different rice accessions correlate with susceptibility or resistance of these accessions to the bacterial blight pathogen.
20346115	Chemoprevention has become an important area in cancer research due to the failure of current therapeutic modalities. Epidemiological and preclinical studies have demonstrated that nutrition plays a vital role in the etiology of cancer. This study was conducted to determine the chemopreventive effects of germinated brown rice (GBR) in rats induced with colon cancer. GBR is brown rice that has been claimed to be richer in nutrients compared to the common white rice. The male Sprague Dawley rats (6 weeks of age) were randomly divided into 5 groups: (G1) positive control (with colon cancer, unfed with GBR), (G2) fed with 2.5 g/kg of GBR (GBR (g)/weight of rat (kg)), (G3) fed with 5 g/kg of GBR, (G4) fed with 10 g/kg of GBR and (G5) negative control (without colon cancer, unfed with GBR). GBR was administered orally once daily via gavage after injection of 15 mg/kg of body weight of azoxymethane (AOM) once a week for two weeks, intraperitonially. After 8 weeks of treatment, animals were sacrificed and colons were removed. Colonic aberrant crypt foci (ACF) were evaluated histopathologically. Total number of ACF and AC, and multicrypt of ACF, and the expression of beta-catenin and COX-2 reduced significantly (p < 0.05) in all the groups treated with GBR (G2, G3 and G4) compared to the control group (G1). Spearman rank correlation test showed significant positive linear relationship between total beta-catenin and COX-2 score (Spearman's rho = 0.616, p = 0.0001). It is demonstrated that GBR inhibits the development of total number of ACF and AC, and multicrypt of ACF, reduces the expression of beta-catenin and COX-2, and thus can be a promising dietary supplement in prevention of colon cancer.
20346185	Plant mitochondrial genomes are known for their complexity, and there is abundant evidence demonstrating that this organelle is important for plant sexual reproduction. Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) is a phenomenon caused by incompatibility between the nucleus and mitochondria that has been discovered in various plant species. As the exact sequence of steps leading to CMS has not yet been revealed, efforts should be made to elucidate the factors underlying the mechanism of this important trait for crop breeding. Two CMS mitochondrial genomes, LD-CMS, derived from Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica (434,735 bp), and CW-CMS, derived from Oryza rufipogon Griff. (559,045 bp), were newly sequenced in this study. Compared to the previously sequenced Nipponbare (Oryza sativa L. ssp. japonica) mitochondrial genome, the presence of 54 out of 56 protein-encoding genes (including pseudo-genes), 22 tRNA genes (including pseudo-tRNAs), and three rRNA genes was conserved. Two other genes were not present in the CW-CMS mitochondrial genome, and one of them was present as part of the newly identified chimeric ORF, CW-orf307. At least 12 genomic recombination events were predicted between the LD-CMS mitochondrial genome and Nipponbare, and 15 between the CW-CMS genome and Nipponbare, and novel genetic structures were formed by these genomic rearrangements in the two CMS lines. At least one of the genomic rearrangements was completely unique to each CMS line and not present in 69 rice cultivars or 9 accessions of O. rufipogon. Our results demonstrate novel mitochondrial genomic rearrangements that are unique in CMS cytoplasm, and one of the genes that is unique in the CW mitochondrial genome, CW-orf307, appeared to be the candidate most likely responsible for the CW-CMS event. Genomic rearrangements were dynamic in the CMS lines in comparison with those of rice cultivars, suggesting that 'death' and possible 'birth' processes of the CMS genes occurred during the breeding history of rice.
20347828	Transfer DNA (T-DNA) of Agrobacterium tumefaciens integration in the plant genome may lead to rearrangements of host plant chromosomal fragments, including inversions. However, there is very little information concerning the inversion. The present study reports a transgenic rice line selected from a T-DNA tagged population, which displays a semi-dwarf phenotype. Molecular analysis of this mutant indicated an insertion of two tandem copies of T-DNA into a locus on the rice genome in a head to tail mode. This insertion of T-DNA resulted in the inversion of a 4.9 Mb chromosomal segment. Results of sequence analysis suggest that the chromosomal inversion resulted from the insertion of T-DNA with the help of sequence microhomology between insertion region of T-DNA and target sequence of the host plant.
20347986	The Oryza sativa constitutive disease resistance 1 (OsCDR1) gene product is an aspartic proteinase that has been implicated in disease resistance signaling. This apoplastic enzyme is a member of the group of 'atypical' plant aspartic proteinases. Recombinant OsCDR1 expressed in Escherichia coli exhibited protease activity against succinylated-casein substrate. Inactivating the enzyme through modification of an aspartate residue present in the deduced active site completely abolished its proteinase activity. Infiltration of the OsCDR1 fusion protein into leaves of Arabidopsis plants induced PR2 transcripts in both the infiltrated leaf (primary) and in non-treated secondary leaves while the inactive recombinant protein failed to induce either local or systemic PR2. These findings demonstrate that OsCDR1 is capable of inducing systemic defense responses in plants.
20348253	Pantoea ananatis is a Gram-negative plant pathogen that causes disease on a broad range of host plants, including pineapple, maize, rice, onion, melons, and Eucalyptus, and has been implicated in several cases of human disease. Here, we report the genome sequence of P. ananatis LMG20103 isolated from diseased Eucalyptus in South Africa.
20348319	A strictly anaerobic bacterial strain (WK042(T)) was isolated from rice-straw residue in a methanogenic reactor treating waste from cattle farms in Japan. Cells were Gram-staining-negative, non-motile, non-spore-forming rods. Growth was stimulated well by haemin, and was enhanced by cobalamin (vitamin B(12)). Strain WK042(T) utilized arabinose, xylose, glucose, mannose and aesculin as preferred substrates. Maltose, dextrin, glycogen, starch and pectin were also utilized, although growth on these substrates was much slower. The strain produced acetate, propionate and succinate from these saccharides. The strain was slightly alkaliphilic, with optimum growth at pH 7.7. The temperature range for growth was 10-40 °C, the optimum being 35 °C. The strain was sensitive to bile. The major cellular fatty acids were anteiso-C(15 : 0), iso-C(17 : 0) 3-OH and C(15 : 0). Menaquinone 11 (MK-11) was the major respiratory quinone and the genomic DNA G+C content was 41.0 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences placed the strain in the phylum Bacteroidetes. Strain WK042(T) was related distantly to the type strains of species in the cluster including Bacteroides massiliensis, Bacteroides vulgatus and Bacteroides dorei (91-92 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity). Based on data from the present phylogenetic, physiological and chemotaxonomic analyses, strain WK042(T) is considered to represent a novel species of the genus Bacteroides, for which the name Bacteroides paurosaccharolyticus sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is WK042(T) (=JCM 15092(T) =DSM 21004(T)).
20348430	Sorghum bicolor is considered to be an allelopathic crop species, producing phytotoxins such as the lipid benzoquinone sorgoleone, which likely accounts for many of the allelopathic properties of Sorghum spp. Current evidence suggests that sorgoleone biosynthesis occurs exclusively in root hair cells and involves the production of an alkylresorcinolic intermediate (5-[(Z,Z)-8',11',14'-pentadecatrienyl]resorcinol) derived from an unusual 16:3Delta(9,12,15) fatty acyl-CoA starter unit. This led to the suggestion of the involvement of one or more alkylresorcinol synthases (ARSs), type III polyketide synthases (PKSs) that produce 5-alkylresorcinols using medium to long-chain fatty acyl-CoA starter units via iterative condensations with malonyl-CoA. In an effort to characterize the enzymes responsible for the biosynthesis of the pentadecyl resorcinol intermediate, a previously described expressed sequence tag database prepared from isolated S. bicolor (genotype BTx623) root hairs was first mined for all PKS-like sequences. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR analyses revealed that three of these sequences were preferentially expressed in root hairs, two of which (designated ARS1 and ARS2) were found to encode ARS enzymes capable of accepting a variety of fatty acyl-CoA starter units in recombinant enzyme studies. Furthermore, RNA interference experiments directed against ARS1 and ARS2 resulted in the generation of multiple independent transformant events exhibiting dramatically reduced sorgoleone levels. Thus, both ARS1 and ARS2 are likely to participate in the biosynthesis of sorgoleone in planta. The sequences of ARS1 and ARS2 were also used to identify several rice (Oryza sativa) genes encoding ARSs, which are likely involved in the production of defense-related alkylresorcinols.
20348434	Magnaporthe oryzae is the most important fungal pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa). Under laboratory conditions, it is able to colonize both aerial and underground plant organs using different mechanisms. Here, we characterize an infection-related development in M. oryzae produced on hydrophilic polystyrene (PHIL-PS) and on roots. We show that fungal spores develop preinvasive hyphae (pre-IH) from hyphopodia (root penetration structures) or germ tubes and that pre-IH also enter root cells. Changes in fungal cell wall structure accompanying pre-IH are seen on both artificial and root surfaces. Using characterized mutants, we show that the PMK1 (for pathogenicity mitogen-activated protein kinase 1) pathway is required for pre-IH development. Twenty mutants with altered pre-IH differentiation on PHIL-PS identified from an insertional library of 2885 M. oryzae T-DNA transformants were found to be defective in pathogenicity. The phenotypic analysis of these mutants revealed that appressorium, hyphopodium, and pre-IH formation are genetically linked fungal developmental processes. We further characterized one of these mutants, M1373, which lacked the M. oryzae ortholog of exportin-5/Msn5p (EXP5). Mutants lacking EXP5 were much less virulent on roots, suggesting an important involvement of proteins and/or RNAs transported by EXP5 during M. oryzae root infection.
20349335	Bacterial leaf blight (BB) of rice is a major disease limiting rice production in several rice growing regions of the world. The pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv oryzae, causing the disease is highly virulent to rice crops and is capable of evolving new races. Breeding efforts to incorporate single BB resistant gene often leads to resistance breakdown within a short period. To overcome such breakdown of resistance and develop germplasm with durable disease resistance, we have introgressed three bacterial blight resistance genes, xa5, xa13, and Xa21 into a fine grain rice variety, Samba Mahsuri, using sequence tagged site (STS) markers linked to these genes. Since the efficiency of the STS markers linked to recessive genes to detect homozygotes is less than 100%, we adopted four different pyramiding schemes to minimize loss of recessive resistance genes in advanced backcross generations. Pyramiding scheme A in which a two-gene Samba Mahsuri pyramid line containing Xa21 and xa5 genes was crossed with the Samba Mahsuri line having xa13 gene alone was found to be most effective in preventing the loss of an important recessive gene xa13. We further demonstrated that there was no yield penalty due to pyramiding of multiple genes into the elite indica rice variety.
20349922	The hydrolysis of starch is a key factor for controlling the glycemic index (GI). Slow digestion properties of starch lead to slower glucose release and lower glycemic response. Food with high resistant starch (RS) possesses great value for controlling the GI. To elucidate the factors that play a role in slow digestibility, seven rice mutants different in RS contents were selected for comparative studies. The degree of hydrolysis showed highly significant correlation with RS, apparent amylose content (AAC), lipid content (LC), and other starch physiochemical properties in all these materials with different RS contents. The rate of in vitro digestible starch correlated positively with RS, whereas digestibility was affected mostly by lipid content for those mutants with similar RS. Starch-lipid complexes and short chains with degrees of polymerization (DP) of 8-12 strongly influenced starch digestion. The integrity of aggregated starch and the number of round starch granules might influence the digestibility of starch directly.
20350329	The Solanaceae family includes several economically important vegetable crops. The tomato (Solanum lycopersicum) is regarded as a model plant of the Solanaceae family. Recently, a number of tomato resources have been developed in parallel with the ongoing tomato genome sequencing project. In particular, a miniature cultivar, Micro-Tom, is regarded as a model system in tomato genomics, and a number of genomics resources in the Micro-Tom-background, such as ESTs and mutagenized lines, have been established by an international alliance. To accelerate the progress in tomato genomics, we developed a collection of fully-sequenced 13,227 Micro-Tom full-length cDNAs. By checking redundant sequences, coding sequences, and chimeric sequences, a set of 11,502 non-redundant full-length cDNAs (nrFLcDNAs) was generated. Analysis of untranslated regions demonstrated that tomato has longer 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions than most other plants but rice. Classification of functions of proteins predicted from the coding sequences demonstrated that nrFLcDNAs covered a broad range of functions. A comparison of nrFLcDNAs with genes of sixteen plants facilitated the identification of tomato genes that are not found in other plants, most of which did not have known protein domains. Mapping of the nrFLcDNAs onto currently available tomato genome sequences facilitated prediction of exon-intron structure. Introns of tomato genes were longer than those of Arabidopsis and rice. According to a comparison of exon sequences between the nrFLcDNAs and the tomato genome sequences, the frequency of nucleotide mismatch in exons between Micro-Tom and the genome-sequencing cultivar (Heinz 1706) was estimated to be 0.061%. The collection of Micro-Tom nrFLcDNAs generated in this study will serve as a valuable genomic tool for plant biologists to bridge the gap between basic and applied studies. The nrFLcDNA sequences will help annotation of the tomato whole-genome sequence and aid in tomato functional genomics and molecular breeding. Full-length cDNA sequences and their annotations are provided in the database KaFTom http://www.pgb.kazusa.or.jp/kaftom/ via the website of the National Bioresource Project Tomato http://tomato.nbrp.jp.
20350593	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small single-stranded RNAs with a length of about 21 nt; these non-coding RNAs regulate developmental and stress responses in plants by cleaving mRNAs. Cold stress is one of the most severe abiotic stresses and adversely affects rice yields by restraining sowing time, causing tissue damage, and stunting growth. Although many miRNAs have been identified in rice, little is known about the role of miRNAs in the response to cold stress. In this study, we identified 18 cold-responsive rice miRNAs using microarrays. Most were down-regulated. Members of the miR-167 and miR-319 families showed similar profiles. Intriguingly, members of miR-171 family showed diverse expression patterns. Three miRNAs derived from transposable element sequence were clustered within an intron and proved to be co-transcribed with the host gene only under cold stress. The existence of hormone-responsive elements in the upstream regions of the cold-responsive miRNAs indicates the importance of hormones in this defense system mediated by miRNAs. Two miRNA target pairs validated by 5' RACE showed opposite expression profiles under cold stress. Finally, the predicted stress-related targets of these miRNAs provided further evidence supporting our results. These findings confirm the role of miRNAs as ubiquitous regulators in rice.
20351263	Plant high-affinity K(+) transport (HKT) proteins are so named because of their relation to bacterial and fungal transporters that mediate high-affinity K(+) uptake. The view that HKT family members are sodium-selective uniporters or sodium-potassium symporters is widely held. We have found that one of the rice HKT proteins also functions as a Ca(2+)-permeable cation channel that conducts current carried by a wide range of monovalent and divalent cations. The HKT rice gene, named OsHKT2;4, is expressed in several cell types, including root hairs and vascular parenchyma cells. The protein is localized to the plasma membrane, thereby providing a mechanism for cation uptake and extrusion. This finding goes against firmly entrenched dogma in showing that HKT proteins can function as both ion carriers and channels. The study further extends the function of HKT proteins to Ca(2+)-linked processes and, in so doing, defines a previously undescribed type of Ca(2+)-permeable cation channels in plants. The work also raises questions about the evolutionary changes in this protein family following the divergence of monocots and dicots.
20351479	The purpose of this study was to investigate the dietary potassium intake and associated other dietary factors among a representative sample cohort of Japanese population. We obtained data from NIPPON DATA80 and 90 that were conducted with the National Nutrition Surveys in 1980 and in 1990. Then we estimated nutrient and food intakes of individuals in the National Nutrition Survey of 1980 and that of 1990, which were adjusted on the basis of data of the National Nutrition Survey of 1995. We analyzed data for 10,422 participants (4585 men and 5837 women) in NIPPON DATA80 and 8342 participants (3488 men and 4854 women) in NIPPON DATA90 having dietary potassium intake information. In NIPPON DATA80 and 90 it was observed that there was a significant relationship between the dietary potassium intake and age for both men and women. Higher potassium intake was associated with higher age, intake of protein, iron, calcium, sodium, vitamins, and fiber. Regarding food groups, lower amount of dietary cereals, rice, flour, fats and oils were associated with higher dietary potassium for both men and women. On the other hand, higher intake of nuts, potatoes, soy beans, fruits, vegetables, mushrooms, sea algae, fish and shellfish were associated with higher dietary potassium. We obtained the mean dietary potassium intake and its association with other dietary nutrient intake in Japanese adults as the baseline data in NIPPON DATA80 and in NIPPON DATA90.
20351480	Dietary habit is one of the important determinants of health. Investigation of the association between diet and blood lipids at the food product level is more advantageous than that at the nutrient level because the results can be applied more directly to improving dietary habits for disease prevention. The integrated datasets of the NIPPON DATA and National Nutrition Surveys in Japan conducted in 1980 and 1990 were used for analysis. The association between serum total cholesterol concentration and food group intake was examined by multiple linear regression analysis separately for sex and survey year with data adjusted for age, body mass index and total energy intake. Intakes of rice, sugar, sweets and snacks, fruit and vegetables other than green and yellow ones were lower and intakes of green and yellow vegetables, mushrooms, seaweed, eggs and milk were higher in the 1990 survey than in the 1980 survey. Intakes of meat, milk and eggs showed a positive association with serum total cholesterol concentration in both sexes while intake of legumes showed a negative association only in men in both the 1980 and 1990 surveys. Sex- and age-specific food group intakes for 1980 and 1990 were identified, and positive and negative associations between serum total cholesterol concentration and food group intake were revealed in a representative sample of the Japanese population. The results provide some insights into the improvements in dietary habits that can be made for disease prevention in Japan.
20352262	Transcription profiling analysis identified Saccharum hybrid DIRIGENT (SHDIR16) and Omicron-Methyltransferase (SHOMT), putative defense and fiber biosynthesis-related genes that are highly expressed in the stem of sugarcane, a major sucrose accumulator and biomass producer. Promoters (Pro) of these genes were isolated and fused to the beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene. Transient and stable transgene expression analyses showed that both Pro(DIR16):GUS and Pro(OMT):GUS retain the expression characteristics of their respective endogenous genes in sugarcane and function in orthologous monocot species, including rice, maize and sorghum. Furthermore, both promoters conferred stem-regulated expression, which was further enhanced in the stem and induced in the leaf and root by salicylic acid, jasmonic acid and methyl jasmonate, key regulators of biotic and abiotic stresses. Pro(DIR16) and Pro(OMT) will enable functional gene analysis in monocots, and will facilitate engineering monocots for improved carbon metabolism, enhanced stress tolerance and bioenergy production.
20353061	Taking sixteen japonica rice varieties from Yunnan of China and Korea growing at three locations with different altitudes in Yunnan Plateau as test materials, this paper studied the effects of different ecological conditions on their grain quality, including brown rice length (BRL), brown rice width (BRW), length-width ratio (L/W), chalky rate (CR), whiteness (WH), amylose content (AC), protein content (PC), and alkali digestion value (ADV), and their starch RVA profile, including peak viscosity (PKV), hot viscosity (HTV), final viscosity (FLV), breakdown viscosity (BDV), setback viscosity (SBV), consistence viscosity(CTV), peak time (PeT), and pasting temperature (PaT). Of all the test parameters, SBV had the largest coefficient of variation. The coefficients of variation of BRL, CR, AC, PC, ADV, FLV, SBV, and PeT of Yunnan varieties were higher than those of Korean varieties, while the BRW, L/W, WH, PKV, HTV, BDV, CTV, and PaT of Korean varieties had higher coefficients of variation than those of Yunnan varieties. With increasing altitude, the BRL, BRW, L/W, WH, AC, ADV, FLV, and CTV of Yunnan varieties, and the BRL, BRW, WH, PC, PKV, HTV and BDV of Korean varieties decreased significantly, while the CR, PC, HTV, and PeT of Yunnan varieties, and the L/W, AC, ADV, SBV and CTV of Korean varieties increased significantly. The CR of Korean varieties had no obvious change. The PKV, BDV, and PaT of Yunnan varieties and the PaT of Korean varieties increased after an initial decrease, whereas the SBV of Yunnan varieties and the FLV and PeT of Korean varieties were in reverse.
20353069	A field experiment was conducted to observe the effects of high-yielding rice cultivars (early rice Luliangyou No. 996 and Chuanfeng No. 1, and late rice T you No. 259) and cultivation patterns (direct sowing and transplanting) on the methane emission from paddy field. The methane emission from early rice field before drying was 52%-73% of the total, while drainage and drying decreased the methane emission significantly. For late rice field, the methane emission during vegetative growth stage was 70% of the total. Under direct sowing of early rice, the average methane flux was lower, but the total methane emission was higher, compared with those under transplanting. As for late rice, both the average methane flux and the total methane emission were higher under direct sowing than under transplanting. There existed significant differences in the methane emission per unit grain production of early rice and late rice between direct sowing and transplanting. The methane emission per unit grain production under direct sowing of early rice super hybrid was increased by 4.84 g CH4 x kg(-1), compared with that under transplanting, and the emission under direct sowing of conventional early rice was increased by 3.48 g CH4 x kg(-1), compared with that under transplanting. The emission under direct sowing of hybrid rice was 6.67 g CH4 x kg(-1) higher than that under transplanting. In the same cultivation area and the same time period of direct sowing and transplanting, the methane emission was in the order of direct sowing of conventional early rice > transplanting of conventional early rice > direct sowing of early rice super hybrid > transplanting of early rice super hybrid, and direct sowing of late rice > transplanting of late rice.
20353092	Nitric oxide (NO) is an important signaling molecule with diverse physiological functions in both animal and plant cells. In this work, we isolated the full-length cDNA and genomic DNA sequences of TaNOA-B1 encoding a putative NO associated (NOA) factor in common wheat. Bioinformatic analysis showed that TaNOA-B1 possessed a similar intron/exon structure as its orthologous genes in Arabidopsis and rice. The amino acid sequence deduced from TaNOA-B1 was more than 60% identitical to those of Arabidopsis and rice NOA1 proteins. The primary structure of TaNOA-B1 contained the zinc finger and P-loop GTPase motifs conserved in Arabidopsis and rice NOA1 proteins. There existed at least three NOA gene members in common wheat, which were mapped to homoeologous group six chromosomes 6A, 6B and 6D, respectively. TaNOA-B1 investigated in this work was located on chromosome 6B. The transcripts of TaNOA members were found mainly in leaves. TaNOA-B1-GFP fusion protein may be located in mitochondria. TaNOA transcript level was up-regulated by abscisic acid (ABA) or NaC1 treatments, indicating that TaNOA might be involved in wheat responses to abiotic stresses.
20353606	Reference genes are widely used to normalise transcript abundance data determined by quantitative RT-PCR and microarrays. However, the approaches taken to define reference genes can be variable. Although Oryza sativa (rice) is a widely used model plant and important crop specie, there has been no comprehensive analysis carried out to define superior reference genes. Analysis of 136 Affymetrix transcriptome datasets comprising of 373 genome microarrays from studies in rice that encompass tissue, developmental, abiotic, biotic and hormonal transcriptome datasets identified 151 genes whose expression was considered relatively stable under all conditions. A sub-set of 12 of these genes were validated by quantitative RT-PCR and were seen to be stable under a number of conditions. All except one gene that has been previously proposed as a stably expressed gene for rice, were observed to change significantly under some treatment. A new set of reference genes that are stable across tissue, development, stress and hormonal treatments have been identified in rice. This provides a superior set of reference genes for future studies in rice. It confirms the approach of mining large scale datasets as a robust method to define reference genes, but cautions against using gene orthology or counterparts of reference genes in other plant species as a means of defining reference genes.
20354754	Expansion of habitat is important for the perpetuation of species. In particular, plants which are sedentary must evolve specialized functions to adapt itself to new environment. Deepwater rice is cultivated mainly in the lowland areas of South and Southeast Asia that are flooded during the rainy season. The internodes of deepwater rice elongates in response to increasing water level to keep its leaves above the water surface and avoid anoxia. This elongation is stimulated by ethylene-regulated genes, Snorkel1 and Snorkel2. In contrast, when a flash flood occurs at the seedling stage, submergence-tolerant rice, which carries Submergence-1A, remains stunted and survives in water for a few weeks to avoid the energy consumption associated with plant elongation, and restarts its growth using its conserved energy after the water recedes. Interestingly, both Snorkel genes and Submergence-1A encode ethylene-responsive factor-type transcription factor and are connected to gibberellin biosynthesis or signal transduction. However, deepwater and submergence-tolerant rice seem to have opposite flooding response; namely, escape by elongation or remain stunted under water until flood recedes.
20355009	In this work the proteolysis profiles of Argentinean sheep cheeses made by two different production methods were studied in order to develop products with typical and defined features. Cheeses with a starter of Streptococcus thermophilus, curd cut to corn grain size, washed and heated to 43 degrees C (S cheeses) and cheeses with a mixed starter of Streptococcus thermophilus, Lactobacillus helveticus and Lactobacillus bulgaricus, curd cut to rice grain size, unwashed and heated to 47 degrees C (L cheeses) were manufactured. The cheeses were ripened at 12 degrees C and 80% relative humidity for 180 days and samples were taken throughout this period. Gross composition and primary proteolysis were similar for both types of cheeses. Streptococci counts diminished from 10(9) to 10(7) colony-forming units g(-1) during ripening in both S and L cheeses. Lactobacilli counts in L cheeses decreased during ripening and disappeared at 180 days. L cheeses had significantly lower pH values and showed higher peptidolysis than S cheeses. Triangle sensory evaluation indicated important differences between the two types of cheeses. S cheeses had a low proteolysis level and a soft flavour, making them appropriate for consumption after a short ripening time. L cheeses had a higher proteolysis level and more intense sensory characteristics, making them appropriate for consumption after a longer ripening time.
20355018	Turmeric rhizome (Curcuma domestica Linn.) contains proteases and has proteolytic activity. Curcumin from turmeric rhizomes has been used for healing many ailments, including cancer. The purpose of this study was to purify turmeric protease and to research their biochemical characteristics [corrected]. Cysteine protease from C. domestica has been purified to homogeneity using acetone precipitation followed by preparatory native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). This protocol resulted in six fold purification with 28% final recovery. The purified turmeric protease showed a prominent single peak and band on high-performance liquid chromatography and sodium dodecyl sulfate-PAGE, respectively, and an estimated molecular weight of 43 KDa, and exhibited optimal activity between 37 and 60 degrees C. The protease activity of the turmeric protease was significantly inhibited by iodoacetic acid. The turmeric protease had higher alanine and glutamate content and cleaved synthetic peptides N-Cbz-Ile-Pro and N-Cbz-Phe-Leu in a time-dependent manner. Peptide mass fingerprint using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectroscopy revealed peptide matches to proteasome subunit alpha type 3 of Oryza sativa ssp. japonica (Rice). The turmeric protease showed antifungal activity at 10 microg mL(-1) towards pathogens Pythium aphanidermatum, Trichoderma viride and Fusarium sp. Cysteine addition significantly activated turmeric protease. The protease inhibition test suggested that turmeric protease belonged to the cysteine type. The biochemical characteristics of turmeric protease described in this paper can provide useful information for potential end uses of turmeric protease for pharmaceutical industry applications such as therapeutics.
20355030	Short-duration (6-7 months) cassava provides opportunities to smallholder farmers for effective utilisation of resources such as land, moisture and nutrients as well as diversification of enterprise and income. The variation in biomass production and partitioning, seasonal course of growth indices, yield, quality and nutrient uptake of ten short-duration/early-bulking genotypes of cassava and their impact on nutrient contents in soil in a lowland situation akin to rice fallow were examined in this study. Triploid 2-18 gave the highest yield (38.34 t ha(-1)), followed by triploid 4-2, Sree Vijaya, Sree Jaya and Vellayani Hraswa, which were on a par (30-32 t ha(-1)). Vellayani Hraswa, Sree Vijaya and triploid 4-2 had significantly higher tuberous root dry matter content (370-380 mg g(-1)) and fairly higher starch content (270-280 mg g(-1)). All genotypes except triploid 4-2, triploid 2-18 and H-165 had low cyanogen content (29.2-43.8 microg g(-1)), well within the tolerable limit. Tuberous root dry matter and total dry matter production, crop growth rate, tuberous root bulking rate and harvest index at the last phase, number of tuberous roots, mean weight of tuberous roots and nutrient uptake showed significant positive correlations with tuberous root yield. Principal component analysis also showed a similar trend. The diploids Sree Vijaya, Sree Jaya, Vellayani Hraswa and Kalpaka are ideal for cultivation in rice fallow for food use owing to their high yield, good cooking quality and low cyanogen content. The triploids are better suited for industrial use owing to their high tuberous root dry biomass production.
20355038	Brown rice is unpolished rice with immeasurable benefits for human health. Brown rice (BR) and pre-germinated brown rice (PGBR) are known to contain various functional compounds such as gamma-oryzanol, dietary fibre and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In the present study, the experimental diets containing BR and PGBR (24, 48 h pre-germination) were used to investigate the influence of pre-germination time of brown rice on blood cholesterol in Sprague-Dawley male rats. Hypercholesterolaemia and elevation of LDL-cholesterol were successfully ameliorated by the experimental diets containing BR and PGBR (24 and 48 h pre-germination). As compared to the control sample, the pre-germination time had a significant (P < 0.05) effect on blood cholesterol of Sprague-Dawley male rats. It was also found that the significantly (P < 0.05) better effect on lipid profile of hypercholesterolaemic rats was observed by prolonging the pre-germination time. As compared to non-germinated brown rice, the germinated brown rice showed the higher cardio-protective effect on hypercholesterolaemic Sprague-Dawley male rats. The present study suggests that the changes of blood cholesterol can be mainly modulated by using the PGBR rather than BR. The prolonging of pre-germination time led to an increase in the bioactive components, thereby providing a more efficient functional diet affecting the high blood cholesterol. This study suggests that PGBR can be used instead of BR and polished rice in the human diet.
20355097	gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is an important bioactive regulator, and its biosynthesis is primarily through the alpha-decarboxylation of glutamate by glutamate decarboxylase (GAD). In plants, it was verified that the production of GABA is regulated, in part, via Ca(2+)/calmodulin (CaM). Our preliminary studies showed that rice bran GAD is probably also a Ca(2+)/CaM dependent enzyme; hence, in the current investigation, we purified calmodulin from rice bran, and studied the effect of the Ca(2+)/calmodulin complex on the activity of rice bran GAD in vitro. CaM was purified to homogeneity from the rice bran by a combined protocol involving TCA precipitation, heat treatment, and hydrophobic interaction chromatography, with the purification fold and recovery of 851.7 and 55.6%, respectively. This protein had similar amino acid composition as the CaMs from other higher plants. The rice bran GAD was found to be quite sensitive to the Ca(2+)/CaM complex at pH 7.0, and addition of exogenous EGTA or TFP efficiently inhibited the stimulatory effect of Ca(2+)/CaM complex. At a separate concentration of Ca(2+) and CaM of 200 micromol L(-1) and 150 nmol L(-1), the rice bran GAD was significantly enhanced 3-fold. Moreover, upon binding Ca(2+), CaM underwent a conformational change that facilitated a more obvious emergency of phenylalanine and tyrosine residues. This investigation provided preliminary information for the development of a GABA-based, cost-effective rice bran GAD-related functional food.
20355102	Trans-free interesterified fat was produced for possible usage as a spreadable margarine stock. Rice bran oil, palm stearin and coconut oil were used as substrates for lipase-catalyzed reaction. After interesterification, 137-150 g kg(-1) medium-chain fatty acid was incorporated into the triacylglycerol (TAG) of the interesterified fats. Solid fat contents at 25 degrees C were 15.5-34.2%, and slip melting point ranged from 27.5 to 34.3 degrees C. POP and PPP (beta-tending TAG) in palm stearin decreased after interesterification. X-ray diffraction analysis demonstrated that the interesterified fats contained mostly beta' polymorphic forms, which is a desirable property for margarines. The interesterified fats showed desirable physical properties and suitable crystal form (beta' polymorph) for possible use as a spreadable margarine stock. Therefore, our result suggested that the interesterified fat without trans fatty acid could be used as an alternative to partially hydrogenated fat.
20355143	Glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) is a useful enzyme whose main function is to catalyse the irreversible alpha-decarboxylation of L-glutamate to produce gamma-aminobutyric acid. The cheap and abundant rice-processing by-product rice bran contains a high amount of GAD, the purification and characterisation of which have not yet been reported. In this study, research on rice bran GAD was initiated. Rice bran GAD was purified to homogeneity via a combined purification protocol of ammonium sulfate fractionation, ion exchange chromatography and two gel filtrations, with a purification fold of 128.6 and an activity recovery of 21.3%. The enzyme was active at pH 5.5 and 40 degrees C and retained 80% of its original activity in the pH range 5-9 and the temperature range 30-50 degrees C. GAD activity was significantly enhanced in the presence of Ca2+ but strongly inhibited by Ag+, Hg2+, sodium dodecyl sulfate and CH3COOH. Kinetic determination of the apparent K(m) for L-glutamate and pyridoxal 5'-phosphate gave values of 27.4 mmol L(-1) and 1.16 micromol L(-1) respectively. Considering that rice bran is cheap and commercially available and that rice bran GAD is relatively stable, the development of cost-effective rice bran GAD-related functional foods would seem to be feasible.
20355330	A reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) strategy was used to clone diverse trypsin-like protease gene transcripts from midguts of the brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens Stål (Homoptera: Delphacidae). Six individual trypsin-like protease transcripts were identified. On the basis of one nucleotide sequence of the six clones, a full-length cDNA sequence (1902 bp) was obtained by rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE). The cDNA contained an 1128-bp open reading frame encoding a putative protein of 375 amino acids with typical features of the trypsin-like protease. Heterogeneous expression of the coding sequence for the mature peptide in Escherichia coli cells showed that the expressed protease with a molecular weight of 27.0 is active, for its BApNAse activity assayed by using BApNA (N-benzoyl-D,L-arginine-p-nitroanilide) as substrate. The protease had its maximum activity at pH 8.0 and 35 degrees C. A much better stability was observed at pH values above 4.0 and temperatures below 40 degrees C. The enzyme was strongly inhibited by serine protease inhibitor. The trypsin-like protease is therefore likely one of the major digestive proteases responsible for protein hydrolysis in N. lugens gut, and multiple gene families encoding digestive proteases may help in adaptation of this sap-sucker to different rice varieties.
20355415	Carbon nanocubes and nanobricks were synthesized by pyrolyzing rice powder at 600 degrees C under nitrogen atmosphere. Purification with concentrated nitric acid introduced approximately 0.1 mol/g of carboxylic acid groups as found by acid-base titrimetric analysis. XRD pattern showed the 0.15 mol/g basic graphitic structure of these nano carbon materials. Their SEM and TEM images revealed cube or brick shaped nano crystals. These nanocrystals are further characterized by FT-IR, Raman, and EDAX analysis. High density wrapping of carboxylated acid groups introduces surface passivation of these nano carbon cubes and nano carbon bricks exhibiting photoluminescence. Solid state electronic spectrum showed several bands in the ultraviolet and visible region and excitation at 336 and 474 nm generates photoluminescence respectively in the ultraviolet and visible region.
20356121	In this work, it was discovered and demonstrated that the combustion of rice husk is a catalytic process by the thermoanalytical technique. The catalyst involves the oxides of such transition metals as Mn, Fe, and Cu, which are mainly formed in the initial stage of rice husk combustion and remain in the rice husk ash as an impurity. Mn(2+) ions of various concentrations were reloaded into the HCl-washed husk for cocombustion. As a result, the complete combustion temperature of the husk was decreased exponentially depending on the Mn(2+) concentration. By the facile Mn loading technique using a 0.5 M solution, the combustion temperature can be decreased by approximately 100 degrees C, and the resulting ashes themselves can be a good catalyst in the complete combustion of many other organic compounds. The physicochemical properties and amorphous structure of the ashes from both the raw and HCl-washed husks were found to be strongly dependent on the burning temperature. A decreased complete rice husk combustion temperature can be beneficial in preparing porous amorphous silica with high surface area, high densification, and small Si-O-Si band angles.
20356303	Functional properties of normal and waxy starches from maize, rice, potato, and cassava as well as the modified waxy maize starch COLFLO 67 were compared. The main objective of this study is to position the recently discovered spontaneous mutation for amylose-free cassava starch in relation to the other starches with well-known characteristics. Paste clarity, wavelength of maximum absorption (lambda(max)), pasting properties, swelling power, solubility, and dispersed volume fraction measurements and gel stability (acid and alkaline resistance, shear, refrigeration, and freeze/thaw stability) were evaluated in the different types and sources of starch included in this study. lambda(max) in the waxy cassava starch was reduced considerably in comparison with that of normal cassava starch (535 vs 592 nm). RVA peak viscosity of waxy cassava starch was larger than in normal cassava starch (1119 vs 937 cP) and assumed a position intermediate between the waxy potato and maize starches. Acid, alkaline, and shear stability of waxy cassava starch were similar to normal cassava except for alkaline pH, at which it showed a low effect. Gels from normal root and tuber starches after refrigeration and freeze/thaw had lower syneresis than cereal starches. Gels from waxy starches (except for potato) did not present any syneresis after 5 weeks of storage at 4 degrees C. Waxy cassava starch was the only one not showing any syneresis after 5 weeks of storage at -20 degrees C. Natural waxy cassava starch is, therefore, a promising ingredient to formulate refrigerated or frozen food.
20356320	Ur1 enhances secondary rachis-branching, resulting in more spikelets per panicle. This genic effect can increase grain yield by enlarging sink size. We conducted mapping of Ur1 using SSR markers, and detected markers usable for the MAS (marker-assisted selection) for Ur1. Three Ur1 isogenic lines of recurrent parents Taichung 65, 'Shiokari' and 'Nishihikari'('T(U)', 'S(U)' and 'N(U)', respectively) were used. SSR-marker analysis indicated that each isogenic line had a non-substituted region containing Ur1 on chromosome 6 which was inherited from its donor parent. T(U) was crossed with a non-Ur1-carrying line, and the F(2) and F(3) populations were grown. Recombination values between the Ur1 locus and SSR-marker loci were obtained from data of the F(2) and F(3). On the basis of both the linkage relationship and the non-substituted regions in T(U), S(U) and N(U), candidate region of the Ur1 locus was narrowed to 0.139 Mb between the loci of up85938 and SSR17 on the long arm of chromosome 6. Genotypes of T(U) and other five Ur1-carrying lines at each locus of ten SSR markers near the Ur1 locus were determined, and allelic frequency at each locus was investigated for 27 japonica and 21 indica varieties. Consequently, SSR12 and SSR17 could be employed as MAS markers for Ur1.
20356949	The traditional Chinese medicine, Hong-Qu, also called red mold rice in the United States and Europe, is used for treating blood stasis, a disorder related to hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. In addition to improving metabolic syndrome, extracts from Monascus-fermented rice inhibit the proliferation of various cancer cells in vitro and in vivo. The objective was to examine the effect of red mold rice ethanol extract (RMRE) on angiogenesis, invasion, and metastasis during tumor progression. RMRE significantly inhibited the proliferation of SW480 and SW620 human colorectal carcinoma cells in a dose- and time-dependent manner by using the MTT assay. A capillary-like network morphology was observed after the addition of 20 ng/mL vascular endothelial growth factor or SW620 culture-conditional medium, which was not seen after RMRE treatment. Moreover, spontaneous intravasation into Matrigel grafts of SW620 cells from the upper to the lower layers in the chick embryo chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) model was detected by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of human Alu genomic DNA from the lower CAMs in the RMRE-untreated group. Neovascularization increased to 75.3% +/- 11.6% by SW620 cells onplant with Matrigel grafts in the CAM model. However, RMRE significantly reduced CAM neovascularization in a dose-dependent manner. Finally, RMRE effectively decreased the activity of matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-7 as determined by reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR), Western blotting, and casein zymography assays. In summary, Monascus-fermented products exert a potent effect on tumor growth and activation, suggesting that they may serve as supplementary agents in adjuvant cancer therapy.
20357136	Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) RAP2.2 (At3g14230) is an APETALA2/ethylene response factor-type transcription factor that belongs to the same subfamily as the rice (Oryza sativa) submergence tolerance gene SUB1A. RAP2.2 is expressed at constitutively high levels in the roots and at lower levels in the shoots, where it is induced by darkness. Effector studies and analysis of ethylene signal transduction mutants indicate that RAP2.2 is induced in shoots by ethylene and functions in an ethylene-controlled signal transduction pathway. Overexpression of RAP2.2 resulted in improved plant survival under hypoxia (low-oxygen) stress, whereas lines containing T-DNA knockouts of the gene had poorer survival rates than the wild type. This indicates that RAP2.2 is important in a plant's ability to resist hypoxia stress. Observation of the expression pattern of 32 low-oxygen and ethylene-associated genes showed that RAP2.2 affects only part of the low-oxygen response, particularly the induction of genes encoding sugar metabolism and fermentation pathway enzymes, as well as ethylene biosynthesis genes. Our results provide a new insight on the regulation of gene expression under low-oxygen conditions. Lighting plays an important regulatory role and is intertwined with hypoxia conditions; both stimuli may act collaboratively to regulate the hypoxic response.
20357140	Although cytosolic free Ca(2+) mobilization induced by microbe/pathogen-associated molecular patterns is postulated to play a pivotal role in innate immunity in plants, the molecular links between Ca(2+) and downstream defense responses still remain largely unknown. Calcineurin B-like proteins (CBLs) act as Ca(2+) sensors to activate specific protein kinases, CBL-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs). We here identified two CIPKs, OsCIPK14 and OsCIPK15, rapidly induced by microbe-associated molecular patterns, including chitooligosaccharides and xylanase (Trichoderma viride/ethylene-inducing xylanase [TvX/EIX]), in rice (Oryza sativa). Although they are located on different chromosomes, they have over 95% nucleotide sequence identity, including the surrounding genomic region, suggesting that they are duplicated genes. OsCIPK14/15 interacted with several OsCBLs through the FISL/NAF motif in yeast cells and showed the strongest interaction with OsCBL4. The recombinant OsCIPK14/15 proteins showed Mn(2+)-dependent protein kinase activity, which was enhanced both by deletion of their FISL/NAF motifs and by combination with OsCBL4. OsCIPK14/15-RNAi transgenic cell lines showed reduced sensitivity to TvX/EIX for the induction of a wide range of defense responses, including hypersensitive cell death, mitochondrial dysfunction, phytoalexin biosynthesis, and pathogenesis-related gene expression. On the other hand, TvX/EIX-induced cell death was enhanced in OsCIPK15-overexpressing lines. Our results suggest that OsCIPK14/15 play a crucial role in the microbe-associated molecular pattern-induced defense signaling pathway in rice cultured cells.
20358029	Rice is the major staple food in a large part of the world, especially in Asia. Hypersensitivity reactions to rice are rare. Moreover, cases of occupational allergies induced by inhalation of rice powder are uncommon. We report a 31-year-old male with work-related rhinitis and conjunctivitis symptoms caused by occupational exposure to rice powder in the grain industry. He showed positive responses to rice extracts on a skin prick test, and a high level of serum specific IgE to rice was detected by ELISA. Occupational rhinitis was confirmed by a nasal provocation test with rice extracts. An IgE ELISA inhibition test showed cross-creativity between rice and various grass pollen extracts. These findings suggest that the inhalation of rice powder can induce IgE-mediated occupational rhino-conjunctivitis, which may be derived from cross-reactivity to major grass pollens.
20358845	In this study,two elite rice inbred lines, Nipponbare and Mastumae were selected and irrigated with naphthalene solution with different concentrations. Epigenetic instabilities in the blade of the plants in tillering and heading stage were assessed by MSAP marks. The results showed that naphthalene exposure induced epigenetic variations in all the samples based on different levels and patterns of DNA methylation. The changes of the percentage of 5-methylcytosine have no regulation. In total 1051 sites tested,the variation of 16.56 percentage of Nipponbare has significant difference compared with the variation of 12.08 percentage of Mastumae,which showed that the capability to resist naphthalene pollution was related to genotype and Mastumae was stronger than Nipponbare in the capability to resist naphthalene pollution. The variations of DNA methylation in different genotypes and different growth periods have significant differences. In general, the frequencies of demethylation (0.48%-10.41%) were higher than hypermethylation (0.10%-1.92%). We concluded that DNA demethylation might be one part of in plants mechanism to resist naphthalene pollution in plants.
20359032	Nanoporous rice husk silica (RHS) was modified with alkylsilylation reagents, hexamethyldisilazane, diethoxydiphenylsilane, dichlorodimethylsilane and n-octodecyltrimethoxysilane. The silica samples were characterized with Raman spectrometer, thermal gravimetric analyzer, scanning electron microscope, nitrogen adsorption measurement and solid state nuclear magnetic resonance spectrometer. Raman spectra of the modified silica showed growth of the peaks of C-H stretching and CH3 bending at approximateluy 3000 cm(-1) and approximately 1500 cm(-1), respectively. Weight losses of 3 approximately 5% were observed in thermo gravimetric profiles of the modified silica. The microscopic shape of RHS, approximately 20 nm primary particles and their aggregates was almost not changed by the modification but there were colligations of the silica particles in the sample treated with dichlorodimethylsilane or diethoxydiphenylsilane. BET adsorption experiment showed the modification significantly decreased the mean pore size of the silica from approximately 5 nm to approximately 4 nm as well as the pore volume from 0.5 cm3/g to 0.4 cm3/g except the case of treatment with n-octodecyltrimethoxysilane. 29Si Solid NMR Spectra of the silica samples showed that there were decrease in the relative intensities of Q2 and Q3 peaks and large increments in Q4 after the modification except for the case of bulky n-octodecyltrimethoxysilane. From the results, it was concluded that the alkylsilylation reagents reacted with hydroxyl groups on the silica particles as well as in the nano pores while the size of the reagent molecule affected its diffusion and reaction with the hydroxyl groups in the pores.
20359375	The present study was designed to determine household food security status and factors associated with food insecurity among high-school students in Esfahan, Iran. Cross-sectional surveys. The present study was conducted in autumn 2008 in Esfahan, Iran. The samples were selected using systematic cluster sampling. Socio-economic questionnaires, food security questionnaires and FFQ were filled out during face-to-face interviews. In addition, data on participants' weights and heights were collected. A total of 580 students (261 boys and 319 girls) aged 14-17 years from forty high schools in Esfahan, Iran, were selected. The prevalence of household food insecurity according to the US Department of Agriculture food security questionnaire was 36.6 % (95 % CI 0.33, 0.40). Food insecurity was positively associated with number of members in the household (P < 0.05) and negatively associated with parental education level and job status and household economic status (P < 0.05). Moreover, students living in food-insecure households more frequently consumed bread, macaroni, potato and egg (P < 0.05), while they less frequently consumed rice, red meat, sausage and hamburger, poultry, fish, green vegetables, root and bulb (coloured) vegetables, melons, apples and oranges, milk and yoghurt (P < 0.05). Food insecurity was prevalent among households in Esfahan, Iran, and food security status was associated with socio-economic factors. Students who belonged to food-secure households more frequently consumed healthy foods (except sausage and hamburger), whereas those living in food-insecure households more frequently consumed cheap foods containing high energy per kilogram. The present study suggests that intervention programmes be designed and carried out.
20359543	Multicellular eukaryotes utilize many complex small RNA mechanisms to regulate gene expression from DNA modifications to RNA stability. RNA interference also regulates exogenous gene expression by degrading invading pathogen RNAs or preventing expression of foreign DNA incorporated into the host genome. Here we review the mechanisms for trans-acting (ta)-siRNA biogenesis and function, including pathways that utilize components of the miRNA and transitive RNAi defense. There are several distinguishing features of ta-siRNA pathways including the requirement for a miRNA-guided cleavage event that sets a processing register, RDR6 dependent dsRNA production, and DCL4 dependent processing to create unique, phased 21 nucleotide small RNAs. These phased small RNAs function to suppress target genes that only show similarity at the ta-siRNA recognition site, and act in trans to repress expression non-cell autonomously of specific target genes. Since the advent of high throughput sequencing technologies, phased siRNAs have been identified in a number of organisms [Heisel SE, Zhang Y, Allen E, Guo L, Reynolds TL, Yang X, et al. Characterization of unique small RNA populations from rice grain. PLoS One 2008;3:e2871. Zhao T, Li G, Mi S, Li S, Hannon GJ, Wang XJ, et al. A complex system of small RNAs in the unicellular green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii. Genes Dev 2007;21:1190-203. Johnson C, et al. Clusters and superclusters of phased small RNAs in the developing inflorescence of rice. Genome Res 2009;19:1429-40. Zhu QH, Spriggs A, Matthew L, Fan L, Kennedy G, Gubler F, et al. A diverse set of microRNAs and microRNA-like small RNAs in developing rice grains. Genome Res 2008;18:1456-65. Howell MD, Fahlgren N, Chapman EJ, Cumbie JS, Sullivan CM, Givan SA, et al. Genome-wide analysis of the RNA-DEPENDENT RNA POLYMERASE6/DICER-LIKE4 pathway in Arabidopsis reveals dependency on miRNA- and ta-siRNA-directed targeting. Plant Cell 2007;19:926-42.]. These include transcripts generated either from non-protein-coding or protein-coding transcripts, long imperfect dsRNA or through an unknown mechanism; therefore some of these may not necessarily be classified as canonical ta-siRNAs.
20360021	Starch forms transparent grains, referred to as starch grains (SGs), in amyloplasts. Despite the simple glucose polymer composition of starch, SGs exhibit different morphologies depending on plant species, especially in the endosperm of the Poaceae family. This study reports a novel method for preparing thin sections of endosperm without chemical fixation or resin embedding that allowed us to visualize subcellular SGs clearly. Using this method, we observed the SG morphologies of >5,000 mutagenized rice seeds and were able to isolate mutants in which SGs were morphologically altered. In five mutants, named ssg (substandard starch grain), increased numbers of small SGs (ssg1-ssg3), enlarged SGs (ssg4) and abnormal interior structures of SGs (ssg5) were observed. Amylopectin chain length distribution analysis and identification of the mutated gene suggested a possible allelic relationship between ssg1, ssg2, ssg3 and the previously isolated amylose-extender (ae) mutants, while ssg4 and ssg5 seemed to be novel mutants. Compared with conventional observation methods, the methods developed here are more effective for obtaining fine images of subcellular SGs and are suitable for the observation of a large number of samples.
20360464	To establish whether the predictions of the extended optional infinitive (EOI) hypothesis (Rice, Wexler, & Cleave, 1995) hold for the language of Afrikaans-speaking children with specific language impairment (SLI) and whether tense marking is a possible clinical marker of SLI in Afrikaans. Production of tense morphology was examined in 3 groups of Afrikaans-speaking children-15 with SLI who were 6 years old, 15 typically developing (TD) 4-year-olds matched on mean length of utterance, and 15 TD 6-year-olds-using both elicited and spontaneously produced verb forms. On the sentence completion task, children with SLI fared on par with 4-year-olds and worse than age-matched peers. However, in terms of spontaneous production of morphemes pertaining to tense, children with SLI fared worse than both TD groups. Furthermore, children with SLI mostly made the same types of errors as 4-year-olds, although some errors were unique to the SLI group. Most errors entailed omissions, of modal and temporal auxiliaries as well as of copula be. The errors offer support for the EOI hypothesis. Tense marking has the potential to be a clinical marker of SLI in Afrikaans, but further research with larger groups of Afrikaans-speaking children, including children of other ages, is needed to confirm this.
20360821	The issue of the mean signal level crossing rate for various probability density functions with primary relevance for optics is discussed based on a new analytical method. This method relies on a unique transformation that transforms the probability distribution under investigation into a normal probability distribution, for which the distribution of mean level crossings is known. In general, the analytical results for the mean level crossing rate are supported and confirmed by numerical simulations. In particular, we illustrate the present method by presenting analytic expressions for the mean level crossing rate for various probability distributions, including ones that previously were unavailable, such as the uniform, the so-called gamma-gamma, and the Rice-Nakagami distribution. However, in a limited number of cases the present results differ somewhat from the result reported in the literature. At present, this discrepancy remains unexplained and is laid open for future discussion.
20363645	The internal energy deposited in both on- and off-resonance collisional activation in Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance mass spectrometry is measured with ion nanocalorimetry and is used to obtain information about the dissociation energy and entropy of a protonated peptide. Activation of Na(+)(H(2)O)(30) results in sequential loss of water molecules, and the internal energy of the activated ion can be obtained from the abundances of the product ions. Information about internal energy deposition in on-resonance collisional activation of protonated peptides is inferred from dissociation data obtained under identical conditions for hydrated ions that have similar m/z and degrees-of-freedom. From experimental internal energy deposition curves and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) theory, dissociation data as a function of collision energy for protonated leucine enkephalin, which has a comparable m/z and degrees-of-freedom as Na(+)(H(2)O)(30), are modeled. The threshold dissociation energies and entropies are correlated for data acquired at a single time point, resulting in a relatively wide range of threshold dissociation energies (1.1 to 1.7 eV) that can fit these data. However, this range of values could be significantly reduced by fitting data acquired at different dissociation times. By measuring the internal energy of an activated ion, the number of fitting parameters necessary to obtain information about the dissociation parameters by modeling these data is reduced and could result in improved accuracy for such methods.
20363869	Novel constitutive gene promoters are essential components of crop biotechnology. Our analysis of five such promoters, APX, SCP1, PGD1, R1G1B, and EIF5, in transgenic rice plants is reported here. The five promoter regions were linked to the gfp reporter gene and transformed into rice. Using fluorescent microscopy and q-RT-PCR, promoter activities were analysed in comparison with OsCc1, Act1, and ZmUbi1, previously characterized as strong constitutive promoters. The APX and PGD1 promoters direct high levels of gene expression in all tissues and stages, producing GFP at levels of up to 1.3% of the total soluble protein. PGD1 is particularly active in flowers and mature roots. The R1G1B is active in the whole grain including the embryo, endosperm, and aleurone layer, and thus represents a constitutive promoter with activity in whole seeds that has not been described previously. The ZmUbi1 and R1G1B promoters are markedly less active in young roots and mature leaves whilst the APX, PGD1, OsCc1, and Act1 promoters are highly active in both vegetative and reproductive tissues. Overall, our results demonstrate that APX, PGD1, and R1G1B are novel gene promoters that are highly active at all stages of plant growth with distinct levels of activity.
20364375	Germplasm diversity is the mainstay for crop improvement and genetic dissection of complex traits. Understanding genetic diversity, population structure, and the level and distribution of linkage disequilibrium (LD) in target populations is of great importance and a prerequisite for association mapping. In this study, 100 genome-wide simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers were used to assess genetic diversity, population structure, and LD of 416 rice accessions including landraces, cultivars and breeding lines collected mostly in China. A model-based population structure analysis divided the rice materials into seven subpopulations. 63% of the SSR pairs in these accessions were in LD, which was mostly due to an overall population structure, since the number of locus pairs in LD was reduced sharply within each subpopulation, with the SSR pairs in LD ranging from 5.9 to 22.9%. Among those SSR pairs showing significant LD, the intrachromosomal LD had an average of 25-50 cM in different subpopulations. Analysis of the phenotypic diversity of 25 traits showed that the population structure accounted for an average of 22.4% of phenotypic variation. An example association mapping for starch quality traits using both the candidate gene mapping and genome-wide mapping strategies based on the estimated population structure was conducted. Candidate gene mapping confirmed that the Wx and starch synthase IIa (SSIIa) genes could be identified as strongly associated with apparent amylose content (AAC) and pasting temperature (PT), respectively. More importantly, we revealed that the Wx gene was also strongly associated with PT. In addition to the major genes, we found five and seven SSRs were associated with AAC and PT, respectively, some of which have not been detected in previous linkage mapping studies. The results suggested that the population may be useful for the genome-wide marker-trait association mapping. This new association population has the potential to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) with small effects, which will aid in dissecting complex traits and in exploiting the rich diversity present in rice germplasm.
20364473	In 2008, the major malaria vectors An.superpictus and An. pulcherrimus amounted up to 50 specimens per premise in the Surkhandaryinsk and Kashkadaryinsk Regions. The high density of larvae in the water reservoirs (as many as 30-50 specimens per square meter) and rice fields (8-60 specimens per square meter) was noted in the Surkhandaryinsk, Namangan, Ferghana, and Tashkent Regions. There is a high susceptibility of the territory due to increased migration between Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, and Tajikistan. In 2008, a total of 4,958,685 subjects passed through 68 border checkpoints, among them there were 835 (0.02%) individuals with suspected infectious diseases, including malaria. The foci of irrigation-ditch area and their conjugate foci of the floodplain-river one of the Surkhandaryinsk Region are most dangerous. Analysis of the trend of malaria foci showed a reduction in the number of new active foci from 44 in 2006 to 6 to 2008. The increased number of residual inactive and sanitized foci suggests that the malaria situation has considerably improved.
20364582	To explore the effect of compound coarse grain food on insulin resistance (IR) in rats. Forty Sprague-Dawley rats were randomly divided into normal control group (n=10) and model group (n=30), provided regular diet and high fat diet separately. After 6 weeks, the model group were divided into high fat diet group, rice flour group and coarse grain group, and provided the corresponding feed. After feeding 9 weeks, the fasting blood glucose, insulin and the expression of PPAR-gamma mRNA in rats were measured. IR was successfully induced by 6-weeks high fat diet. The body weight and insulin resistance index (HOMA-IR) in coarse grain group were significantly lower than high fat diet group and rice flour group. The expression of PPAR-gamma mRNA in coarse grain group was significantly higher than other three groups (P < 0.05). The coarse grain food can reduce the concentration of blood glucose and insulin in rat with insulin resistance induced by high-fat dietary, and improve insulin sensitivity. The possible mechanism is the over-expression of PPAR-gamma.
20364583	To study the digestibility of protein and amino acids in lysine-rich genetically modified (GM) rice and its parental rice. Eight Wuzhishan Mini-pig Inbred-line as the experimental animals, T-cannulas were equipped at their terminal ileums by surgical operation. Six of them, which were well-healed and with good appetite, were fed with lysine-rich genetically modified rice and its parental rice, and digesta of each pig was collected and analyzed respectively for comparing their apparent digestibility (AD) and true digestibility (TD). The endogenous amino acids losses were determined by casein diet method. The AD and TD of protein are very similar in the two types of rice. There are no statistical differences in the AD of all amino acids except for Cysteine, and there are no statistical differences in the TD of all 18 amino acids. The lysine-rich GM rice has no statistical difference with its parental rice in terms of protein and amino acid digestion and absorption in Wuzhishan mini-pigs.
2036592	Although starch provides a large fraction of human caloric intake, there is limited information concerning the efficiency of intestinal absorption of this nutrient. Owing to the fermentation of starch by colonic bacteria, there is no quantitative test for starch absorption comparable to the fecal fat determination. The most accurate estimation of starch absorption has been obtained by intubating the terminal ileum and aspirating ileal contents following ingestion of a meal containing starch plus a nonabsorbable marker. Starch absorption is calculated from the ratio of starch:marker in the ileal aspirate relative to the ratio in the meal. Disadvantages of the technique are the requirement for ileal intubation and the possible adverse effect of intubation on the absorptive process. A more widely used technique to assess starch absorption involves measurement of breath hydrogen (H2) excretion after ingestion of starch. Malabsorbed starch is fermented by colonic bacteria with liberation of H2 that is absorbed and excreted in expired air. This test is simple and noninvasive and can provide quantitative measurements of starch malabsorption. Application of this technique has demonstrated that 5-10% of starch in wheat, potatoes, and corn is not absorbed by healthy subjects, while rice starch is nearly completely absorbed.
2036602	The daily per capita availability of dietary starch was estimated for 38 selected countries using food disappearance data from the FAO provisional food balance sheets (1972-1974 average); starch availability was also estimated for Canada from 1960 to 1987 using Agriculture Canada disappearance data. Total starch availability varies fourfold among the difference countries; the availability of different sources of starch vary up to 80-fold. Wheat and roots-tubers were the major sources of starch in countries with low total starch availability. Either corn and pulses, rice and pulses, or wheat and potatoes were the major sources of starch in those countries with high total starch availability. Starch availability in Canada, both total and by source, has been relatively constant over the 27 years examined. Slight increases in total starch and starch from cereals and pulses in 1987 will need to be followed to determine whether these represent the beginning of a real change in per capita starch availability.
20369380	The aim of this investigation was to identify major pesticides that may cause detrimental effects in bivalve species affected by agricultural pollution. Investigations were carried out using freshwater clams (Corbicula fluminea) transplanted in the main drainage channels that collect the effluents coming from agriculture fields in the Ebro Delta (NE Spain) during the main growing season of rice (from May to August). Environmental hazards were assessed by measuring simultaneous up 46 contaminant levels and 9 biomarker responses. Measured biological responses showed marked differences across sites and months. Antioxidant and esterase enzyme responses were in most cases inhibited. Lipid peroxidation levels increased steadily from May in upstream stations to August in drainage channels. Principal Component (PCA) and Partial Least Squares to Latent Structure regression (PLS) analyses allowed the identification of endosulfan, propanil, and phenylureas as being the chemical contaminants causing the most adverse effects in the studied species.
20369851	Whole rice plants (Oryza sativa L.) were collected at different typical mercury (Hg) contaminated sites during regular harvest periods to investigate the distribution of inorganic mercury (IHg) and methylmercury (MeHg) in tissues. The whole rice plants were divided into rice seed (brown rice), hull, root, stalk and leaf. Elevated IHg and MeHg concentrations were observed in rice plants cultivated in Hg mining area compared to those obtained from the control site, which attributed to the Hg contamination of soil compartments by the historical large-scale Hg mining/smelting and ongoing artisanal Hg smelting activities. Our observations showed that Hg in ambient air was the potential source of IHg to the above ground parts, whereas IHg concentrations in root were restricted to Hg concentrations in paddy soil. The rice seed has the highest ability to accumulate MeHg compared to the other tissues. MeHg in paddy soil is a potential source to tissues of rice plant. Our study suggested that newly deposited Hg is comparatively more easily methylated than old mercury in soil.
20370941	Animal studies and one large cross-sectional study of 752 healthy Chinese men and women suggest that monosodium glutamate (MSG) may be associated with overweight/obesity, and these findings raise public concern over the use of MSG as a flavour enhancer in many commercial foods. The aim of this analysis was to investigate a possible association between MSG intake and obesity, and determine whether a greater MSG intake is associated with a clinically significant weight gain over 5 years. Data from 1282 Chinese men and women who participated in the Jiangsu Nutrition Study were analysed. In the present study, MSG intake and body weight were quantitatively assessed in 2002 and followed up in 2007. MSG intake was not associated with significant weight gain after adjusting for age, sex, multiple lifestyle factors and energy intake. When total glutamate intake was added to the model, an inverse association between MSG intake and 5 % weight gain was found (P = 0.028), but when the model was adjusted for either rice intake or food patterns, this association was abolished. These findings indicate that when other food items or dietary patterns are accounted for, no association exists between MSG intake and weight gain.
20372017	Bacterial blight, an important and potentially destructive bacterial disease in rice, is caused by Xanthomonas oryzae. Recently, this organism has developed resistance to available antibiotics, prompting scientists to find a suitable alternative. This study focused on secondary metabolites of Phomopsis longicolla to target X. oryzae. Five bioactive compounds were isolated by activity-guided fractionation from ethyl acetate extracts of mycelia and were identified by LC/MS and NMR spectroscopy as dicerandrol A, dicerandrol B, dicerandrol C, deacetylphomoxanthone B, and fusaristatin A. This is the first time fusaristatin A has been isolated from Phomopsis sp. Deacetylphomoxanthone B showed a higher antibacterial effect against X. oryzae KACC 10331 than the positive control (2,4-diacetyphloroglucinol). Dicerandrol A also showed high antimicrobial activity against Grampositive bacteria (Staphylococcus aureus, Bacillus subtilis) and yeast (Candida albicans). In addition, high production yields of these compounds were obtained at the stationary and death phases.
20372023	This work was aimed at utilizing rice bran as a substrate for beta-carotene production by Rhodotorula glutinis DM 28 under optimized conditions of solid-state fermentation. The biomass and beta-carotene content of Rhodotorula glutinis DM 28 grown on rice bran as a sole substrate under solid-state fermentation were 54 g/kg rice bran and 1.65 mg/kg rice bran, respectively. Its biomass and beta-carotene content, however, could be improved by 60% and 30%, respectively, using the Central Composite Design for the optimization of its cultivation conditions. The optimized conditions obtained were a pH of 5, a moisture content of 70% (w/w), and a carbon-to-nitrogen ratio of 4. Under these conditions, rice bran containing R. glutinis DM 28 had nutritional values of beta-carotene, protein, and fat higher than those of rice bran alone. Yeast-grown rice bran could be suitable, therefore, to use as a beta-carotene-enriched supplement in animal feeds.
20373555
20373587
20373972	Six pairs of single-locus microsatellite primers were developed to study the population structure of Rhizoctonia oryzae-sativae, the cause of aggregate sheath spot disease of rice, among and within three rice-growing areas in California over a 3-year period. A high level of gene flow among growing areas was indicated by low population subdivision according to analysis of molecular variance and moderate to no population differentiation between pairs of populations based on the fixation index (F(ST)). Gametic equilibrium of most pairs of microsatellite loci, high numbers of unique multilocus genotypes, and high genotypic diversity indicated extensive sexual recombination within growing areas. Because there was little differentiation among populations in all hierarchical levels, including among growing areas within sampling years, fields within growing areas, and corners within individual fields, a high level of gene flow was revealed in all levels. Basidiospores were likely the main vehicle of gene flow among populations, including short and long distances. Asexual inocula (sclerotia and mycelia) probably overwinter because a few clones were detected over a 2-year period within the same field. A few clones were shared among fields but were not commonly shared among growing areas.
20374565	To determine (i) whether peridomestic Attalea phalerata palms in fragmented human-occupied areas of the Alto Beni, Bolivia, are infested by triatomines; (ii) the specific status of triatomines captured in the area; and (iii) the rate of natural Trypanosoma cruzi infection among those triatomines. One hundred and twenty-five live-bait traps were used to sample 47 A. phalerata palms in three Alto Beni localities. Active search for vectors was also performed in 10 chicken coops and three rice storage units. Only Rhodnius specimens were found. As nymphs of closely related Rhodnius species are morphologically undistinguishable, and because of controversy in the literature regarding which Rhodnius species occur in Bolivia, collected insects were identified through molecular taxonomy. Phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequences obtained for a fragment of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene and for the nuclear ITS-2 ribosomal region were used as molecular markers. Natural infection rates were determined using a pair of primers that PCR-amplify a 330-bp fragment of the parasite's kDNA. Twelve nymphs were captured in five A. phalerata palms (from two of the three localities studied), and an adult was collected from a chicken coop in Iniqua (and morphologically identified as Rhodnius stali). All nymphs (as well as the adult) were molecularly identified as R. stali based on the two molecular markers used. A single nymph was found to be infected with T. cruzi. Attalea phalerata palms represent an important sylvatic ecotope occupied by R. stali in the Alto Beni region of Bolivia, where there are signs of T. cruzi transmission to humans, despite the preliminary indication of low level of natural infection of the vectors.
20374777	The effects of reducing pork fat levels from 30% to 20% and partially substituting the pork fat with a mix of grape seed oil (0%, 5%, 10% and 15%) and 2% rice bran fiber were investigated based on chemical composition, cooking characteristics, physicochemical and textural properties, and viscosity of reduced-fat meat batters. For reduced-fat meat batters containing grape seed oil and rice bran fiber the moisture and ash contents, uncooked and cooked pH values, yellowness, cohesiveness, gumminess, chewiness, and sarcoplasmic protein solubility were higher than in the control samples. The reduced-fat samples with increasing grape seed oil concentrations had lower cooking loss, emulsion stability, and apparent viscosity. The incorporation of grape seed oil and rice bran fiber successfully reduced the animal fat content in the final products while improving other characteristics.
20374824	The effects of substituting olive, grape seed, corn, canola, or soybean oil and rice bran fiber on the chemical composition, cooking characteristics, fatty acid composition, and sensory properties of low-fat frankfurters were investigated. Ten percent of the total fat content of frankfurters with a total fat content of 30% (control) was partially replaced by one of the vegetable oils to reduce the pork fat content by 10%. The moisture and ash content of low-fat frankfurters with vegetable oil and rice bran fiber were all higher than the control (P<0.05). Low-fat frankfurters had reduced-fat content, energy values, cholesterol and trans-fat levels, and increased pH, cooking yield and TBA values compared to the controls (P<0.05). Low-fat frankfurters with reduced-fat content plus rice bran fiber had sensory properties similar to control frankfurters containing pork fat.
20375977	English Chemist Harold Kroto shared the 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry with Robert Curl and Richard Smalley for their discovery of Fullerenes (C(60;)), molecules composed completely of carbon (C(60;)) that form hollow spheres (also known as Buckyballs), tubes, or ellipsoids. These structures hold the potential for use in future technologies ranging from drug development and antimicrobial agents, to armor and superconductors. Harold Kroto was born in Wisbech, Cambridgeshire in 1939 and grew up in Bolton. Educated at Bolton School, he entered Sheffield University in 1958 to study Chemistry. During his time there he played tennis for the university team, illustrated the university's magazine covers, and played folk music with other students. Enjoying his time at Sheffield very much, he chose to stay on and complete a Ph.D. in Chemistry under Richard Dixon. Following graduation in 1964, Kroto went on to post doc at the National Research Council (NRC) in Ottowa, Canada where microwave spectroscopy became his specialty. After two years of study at the NRC he spent a year at Bell Laboratories. He then accepted a position as a tutorial fellow at the University of Sussex, where he was soon offered a permanent position. There, he applied his expertise in microwave spectroscopy to the field of astronomy and spent several fruitful years detecting long carbon chains in the interstellar medium. Upon hearing of the work of Richard Smalley at Rice, who developed a laser that could vaporize graphite, Kroto thought they could use Smalley's instrument to see carbon chains similar to those they had observed in interstellar matter. He suggested his idea for an experiment to Bob Curl, also at Rice. In 1985 he traveled to Rice to perform the experiment (and also to visit a half-price bookstore he'd heard about in Houston). Although he felt certain that the apparatus would create the carbon chains, the experiment revealed a totally unexpected result: the spontaneous formation of spherical shapes, which they called Buckminster Fullerenes in honor of the architect who popularized the geodesic dome. Though he is pleased to have received the Nobel Prize, Kroto does not believe in prizes or competition as a motivator for scientific (or athletic) progress. Rather, he believes that the pursuit of science or athletics should be simply for the enjoyment or interest in the subject matter, and he prefers to investigate subjects that other people aren't working on. Kroto has mixed feelings about the effect the prize has had on his life. On the one hand, he would like to be able to spend more time pursuing graphic design, something he has always deeply enjoyed. On the other hand, he now enjoys a sense of responsibility for supporting the scientific community. As an atheist, Kroto feels that science is, in itself, atheistic. He doesn't accept anything without evidence. Kroto expresses concern about people holding positions of power who do not use evidence as a basis for decision-making. "When they are prepared to accept one of 20-30 stories from thousands of years ago, I wonder what else they are prepared to accept when it comes to decisions which affect me?" Kroto is particularly worried about the effect of policies that require the teaching of non-scientific ideas, to the detriment of evidence-based scientific education. He points to the forced teaching of creationism in public schools and the existence of a "creation museum" in the United States as sources of misinformation that have given rise to "a whole generation of school children who've been abused."
20376177	The application of gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to the 'global' analysis of metabolites in complex samples (i.e. metabolomics) has now become routine. The generation of these data-rich profiles demands new strategies in data mining and standardisation of experimental and reporting aspects across laboratories. As part of the META-PHOR project's (METAbolomics for Plants Health and OutReach: http://www.meta-phor.eu/) priorities towards robust technology development, a GC-MS ring experiment based upon three complex matrices (melon, broccoli and rice) was launched. All sample preparation, data processing, multivariate analyses and comparisons of major metabolite features followed standardised protocols, identical models of GC (Agilent 6890N) and TOF/MS (Leco Pegasus III) were also employed. In addition comprehensive GCxGC-TOF/MS was compared with 1 dimensional GC-TOF/MS. Comparisons of the paired data from the various laboratories were made with a single data processing and analysis method providing an unbiased assessment of analytical method variants and inter-laboratory reproducibility. A range of processing and statistical methods were also assessed with a single exemplary dataset revealing near equal performance between them. Further investigations of long-term reproducibility are required, though the future generation of global and valid metabolomics databases offers much promise.
20376514	Large number of well-filled grains per panicle is an important yield component trait in rice. A combination of QTL mapping and transcriptome profiling was used to identify candidate genes for grain number. A framework linkage map was constructed using 166 SSR markers evenly distributed over the 12 rice chromosomes. QTL mapping using 3 years phenotyping data on a set of recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between Pusa 1266 (high grain number) and Pusa Basmati 1 (low grain number) identified one consistent QTL qGN4-1 on the long arm of chromosome 4 with major effect on grain number. This QTL was co-localized with major QTLs for primary and secondary branches per panicle, and number of panicles per plant. The QTL interval was narrowed down to 11.1 cM (0.78 Mbp) by targeted enrichment of the region with six additional markers. Microarray transcriptome profiling revealed eight genes in the qGN4-1 region differentially expressed between the two parents during early panicle development. Synteny of this QTL and potential candidates was examined in wheat, barley, maize, sorghum, and Brachypodium to further validate the association.
20377687	In order to gain a better understanding of rice flower development, a rice flower mutant supernumerary lodicules (snl), which was identified from ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS)-treated Jinhui10 (Oryza sativa L. ssp. indica) was used in the present study. In the snl mutant, the palea obtained lemma identity, additional glume-like organs formed, lodicules increased and elongated, stamens decreased, and a few aberrant carpels formed. These phenotypes suggest that SNL is involved in the entire rice flower development. SNL was mapped between two simple sequence repeat markers RM3512 and RM1342 on chromosome 2, an approximate 800 kb region, and it co-segregated with SSR215. We conclude that SNL is a novel gene involved in flower development in rice. The present study will be useful for further cloning of the SNL gene, which will contribute to the elucidation of rice flower development.
20377704	Histone lysine methylation is known to be involved in the epigenetic regulation of gene expression in all eukaryotes including plants. Here we show that the rice SDG714 is primarily responsible for dimethylation but not trimethylation on histone H3K9 in vivo. Overexpression of YFP-SDG714 in Arabidopsis significantly inhibits plant growth and this inhibition is associated with an enhanced level of H3K9 dimethylation. Our microarray results show that many genes essential for the plant growth and development were downregulated in transgenic Arabidopsis plants overexpressing YFP-SDG714. By chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis, we show that YFP-SDG714 is targeted to specific chromatin regions and dimethylate the H3K9, which is linked with heterochromatinization and the downregulation of genes. Most interestingly, when YFP-SDG714 production is stopped, the inhibited plants can partially restore their growth, suggesting that the perturbation of gene expression caused by YFP-SDG714 is revertible. Taken together, our results point to an important role of SDG714 in H3K9 dimethylation, suppression of gene expression and plant growth, and provide a potential method to regulate gene expression and plant development by an on-off switch of SDG714 expression.
20377957	A quantitative real-time PCR using SYBR Green dye was developed to target the neurotoxin type A (boNT/A) gene of Clostridium botulinum type A. Primer specificity was confirmed by analyzing 63 strains including 5 strains of C. botulinum type A and 11 of non-type A C. botulinum. The highly similar amplification efficiencies of the real-time PCR assay were observed for 5 strains of C. botulinum type A. The DNA extraction with NucliSENS miniMAG provided sufficient performance to obtain the purified DNA from steamed rice samples and to develop the standard curve for the enumeration of C. botulinum in steamed rice samples. The real-time PCR assay could detect 10 cells per milliliter of 10 x rice homogenate, thus indicating that more than 100 C. botulinum cells per g of rice sample was quantifiable by the real-time PCR assay. The inoculation of aseptic rice samples with low numbers of C. botulinum type A cells revealed that the fate of inoculated C. botulinum type A cells in rice samples could be monitored accurately by the real-time PCR assay. These results indicate that the real-time PCR assay developed in this study provides rapid, effective, and quantitative monitoring of C. botulinum in steamed rice samples.
20378486	Fish consumption is considered the primary pathway of methylmercury (MeHg) exposure for most people in the world. However, in the inland regions of China, most of the residents eat little fish, but they live in areas where a significant amount of mercury (Hg) is present in the environment. We assessed concentrations of total Hg and MeHg in samples of water, air, agricultural products, and other exposure media to determine the main exposure pathway of Hg in populations in inland China. We selected Guizhou Province for our study because it is highly contaminated with Hg and therefore is representative of other Hg-contaminated areas in China. We selected four study locations in Guizhou Province: three that represent typical environments with severe Hg pollution [due to Hg mining and smelting (Wanshan), traditional zinc smelting (recently closed; Weining), and heavy coal-based industry (Qingzhen)], and a village in a remote nature reserve (Leigong). The probable daily intake (PDI) of MeHg for an adult population based on 60 kg body weight (bw) was considerably higher in Wanshan than in the other three locations. With an average PDI of 0.096 microg/kg bw/day (range, 0.015-0.45 microg/kg bw/day), approximately 34% of the inhabitants in Wanshan exceeded the reference dose of 0.1 microg/kg bw/day established by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. The PDI of MeHg for residents in the three other locations were all well below 0.1 microg/kg bw/day (averages from 0.017 to 0.023 microg/kg bw/day, with a maximum of 0.095 microg/kg bw/day). In all four areas, rice consumption accounted for 94-96% of the PDI of MeHg. We found that rice consumption is by far the most important MeHg exposure route; however, most of the residents (except those in Hg-mining areas) have low PDIs of MeHg.
20378553	High-throughput sequencing (HTS) has opened up a new era for small RNA (sRNA) exploration. Using HTS data for a global survey of sRNAs in 26 angiosperms, elevated GC contents were detected in the monocots, whereas the 5(')-terminal compositions were quite uniform among the angiosperms. Chromosome-wide distribution patterns of sRNAs were investigated by using scrolling-window analysis. We performed de novo natural antisense transcript (NAT) prediction, and found that the overlapping regions of trans-NATs, but not cis-NATs, were hotspots for sRNA generation. One cis-NAT generates phased natural antisense short interfering RNAs (nat-siRNAs) specifically from flowers in Arabidopsis, while one in rice produces phased nat-siRNAs from grains, suggesting their organ-specific regulatory roles.
20378970	The ascorbic acid (AsA) content and the mRNA levels of L-galactose-1-phosphate phosphatase (GPPase), and L-galactono-1,4-lactone dehydrogenase (GalLDH) increased by intense light, and decreased in the dark. Moreover, the promoter regions of GPPase and GalLDH contained light responsible cis-elements. These results suggest that in rice, AsA synthesis is regulated by light.
20379215	Caripyrin (trans-5-(3-methyloxiranyl)pyridincarboxylic acid methyl ester, 1), a new pyridyloxirane, was isolated from submerged cultures of the basidiomycete Caripia montagnei. The compound was found to inhibit conidial germination and appressorium formation in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae, whereas the infection-related morphogenesis in several other phytopathogenic fungi was not affected. In plant assays on rice, 1 was found to protect plants more efficiently against fungal infection than the structurally related fungal secondary metabolite, fusaric acid. Contrary to the latter, 1 was neither cytotoxic, antibacterial, nor nematicidal.
20379813	Pesticides are widely used in rice cultivation, often resulting in detection of their residues in rice grains. So far, no analytical method has been available for the simultaneous determination of most rice pesticides in rice grains. This paper reports the development and validation of such a method for the determination of eight rice pesticides (penoxsulam tricyclazole, propanil, azoxystrobin, molinate, profoxydim, cyhalofop-butyl, deltamethrin) and 3,4-dichloroaniline, the main metabolite of propanil. Pesticide extraction and clean-up was performed by an optimized matrix solid-phase dispersion (MSPD) protocol on neutral alumina (5 g) using acetonitrile as the elution solvent. Samples were analyzed in a high-performance liquid chromatography-diode array detection (HPLC-DAD) system. Pesticide separation was achieved with a mobile phase of acetonitrile/water in a linear elution gradient from 30:70% (v/v) to 100:0% (v/v) in 14 min at a flow rate of 0.8 mL min(-1). Method validation was performed by means of linearity, intra-day accuracy, inter-day precision and sensitivity. Linear regression coefficients (R(2)) were always above 0.9948. Limits of detection (LOD) and quantification (LOQ) varied from 0.002 to 0.200 mg kg(-1) and 0.006 to 0.600 mg kg(-1), respectively. Recoveries were investigated at three fortification levels and were found to be acceptable (74-127%) with relative standard deviations (RSD) below 12%. Application of the method for the analysis of five commercial rice grain samples showed that the pesticide levels were below the LOD. Overall, the method developed is suitable for the determination of residues of most rice pesticides in rice grains at levels below the established MRLs.
20380294	Studies were conducted to examine the population genetic structure of Anopheles arabiensis (Patton) in Mwea Rice Irrigation Scheme and surrounding areas in Central Kenya, under different agricultural systems. This study was motivated by observed differences in malaria transmission indices of An. arabiensis within the scheme compared with adjacent nonirrigated areas. Agricultural practices can modify local microclimate and influence the number and diversity of larval habitats and in so doing may occasion subpopulation differentiation. Thirty samples from each of the three study sites were genotyped at eight microsatellite loci. Seven microsatellite loci showed high polymorphism but revealed no genetic differentiation (FST = 0.006, P = 0.312) and high gene flow (Nm = 29-101) among the three populations. Genetic bottleneck analysis showed no indication of excess heterozygosity in any of the populations. There was high frequency of rare alleles, suggesting that An. arabiensis in the study area has a high potential of responding to selective pressures from environmental changes and vector control efforts. These findings imply that An. arabiensis in the study area occurs as a single, continuous panmictic population with great ability to adapt to human-imposed selective pressures.
20380703	Agricultural practices such as the use of irrigation during rice cultivation, the use of ponds for fish farming and the storage of water in tanks for livestock provide suitable breeding grounds for anthropophylic mosquitoes. The most common anthropophylic mosquito in Nigeria which causes much of the morbidity and mortality associated with malaria is the anopheles mosquito. Farmers are therefore at high risk of malaria - a disease which seriously impacts on agricultural productivity. Unfortunately information relating to agricultural practices and farmers' behavioural antecedent factors that could assist malaria programmers plan and implement interventions to reduce risk of infections among farmers is scanty. Farmers' knowledge about malaria and agricultural practices which favour the breeding of mosquitoes in Fashola and Soku, two rural farming communities in Oyo State were therefore assessed in two rural farming communities in Oyo State. This descriptive cross-sectional study involved the collection of data through the use of eight Focus Group Discussions (FGDs) and the interview of 403 randomly selected farmers using semi-structured questionnaires. These sets of information were supplemented with observations of agricultural practices made in 40 randomly selected farms. The FGD data were recorded on audio-tapes, transcribed and subjected to content analysis while the quantitative data were analyzed using descriptive and inferential statistics. Most respondents in the two communities had low level of knowledge of malaria causation as only 12.4% stated that mosquito bite could transmit the disease. Less than half (46.7%) correctly mentioned the signs and symptoms of malaria as high body temperature, body pains, headache, body weakness and cold/fever. The reported main methods for preventing mosquito bites in the farming communities included removal of heaps of cassava tuber peelings (62.3%), bush burning/clearing (54.6%) and clearing of ditches (33.7%). The dumping of cassava tuber peelings which allows the collection of pools of water in the farms storage of peeled cassava tubers soaked in water in uncovered plastic containers, digging of trenches, irrigation of farms and the presence of fish ponds were the observed major agricultural practices that favoured mosquito breeding on the farms. A significant association was observed between respondents' knowledge about malaria and agricultural practices which promote mosquito breeding. Respondents' wealth quintile level was also seen to be associated with respondents' knowledge about malaria and agricultural practices which promote mosquito breeding. Farmers' knowledge of malaria causation and signs and symptoms was low, while agricultural practices which favour mosquito breeding in the farming communities were common. There is an urgent need to engage farmers in meaningful dialogue on malaria reduction initiatives including the modification of agricultural practices which favour mosquito breeding. Multiple intervention strategies are needed to tackle the factors related to malaria prevalence and mosquito abundance in the communities.
20381365	Aminopropyl transferases like spermidine synthase (SPDS; EC 2.5.1.16), spermine synthase and thermospermine synthase (SPMS, tSPMS; EC 2.5.1.22) belong to a class of widely distributed enzymes that use decarboxylated S-adenosylmethionine as an aminopropyl donor and putrescine or spermidine as an amino acceptor to form in that order spermidine, spermine or thermospermine. We describe the analysis of plant genomic sequences encoding SPDS, SPMS, tSPMS and PMT (putrescine N-methyltransferase; EC 2.1.1.53). Genome organization (including exon size, gain and loss, as well as intron number, size, loss, retention, placement and phase, and the presence of transposons) of plant aminopropyl transferase genes were compared between the genomic sequences of SPDS, SPMS and tSPMS from Zea mays, Oryza sativa, Malus x domestica, Populus trichocarpa, Arabidopsis thaliana and Physcomitrella patens. In addition, the genomic organization of plant PMT genes, proposed to be derived from SPDS during the evolution of alkaloid metabolism, is illustrated. Herein, a particular conservation and arrangement of exon and intron sequences between plant SPDS, SPMS and PMT genes that clearly differs with that of ACL5 genes, is shown. The possible acquisition of the plant SPMS exon II and, in particular exon XI in the monocot SPMS genes, is a remarkable feature that allows their differentiation from SPDS genes. In accordance with our in silico analysis, functional complementation experiments of the maize ZmSPMS1 enzyme (previously considered to be SPDS) in yeast demonstrated its spermine synthase activity. Another significant aspect is the conservation of intron sequences among SPDS and PMT paralogs. In addition the existence of microsynteny among some SPDS paralogs, especially in P. trichocarpa and A. thaliana, supports duplication events of plant SPDS genes. Based in our analysis, we hypothesize that SPMS genes appeared with the divergence of vascular plants by a processes of gene duplication and the acquisition of unique exons of as-yet unknown origin.
20381393	In plants, the known microRNAs (miRNAs) are produced as approximately 21 nucleotide (nt) duplexes from their precursors by Dicer-like 1 (DCL1). They are incorporated into Argonaute 1 (AGO1) protein to regulate target gene expression primarily through mRNA cleavage. We report here the discovery of a class of miRNAs in the model monocot rice (Oryza sativa). These are 24 nt in length and require another member of the Dicer family, DCL3, for their biogenesis. The 24 nt long miRNAs (lmiRNAs) are loaded into AGO4 clade proteins according to hierarchical rules, depending on the upstream biogenesis machinery and the 5'-terminal nucleotide. We demonstrated that lmiRNAs direct DNA methylation at loci from which they are produced as well as in trans at their target genes and play roles in gene regulation. Considered together, our findings define a miRNA pathway that mediates DNA methylation.
20382193	Improving the nutraceutical value of rice would positively impact the health and well-being of rice consumers worldwide. Based on the three-dimensional structure of soybean beta-conglycinin, we designed a beta subunit with a strong phagocytosis-stimulating activity (mbeta subunit). Here, we describe the genetic modification and production of rice seeds containing the mbeta subunit as part of our aim to develop a food material that promotes human health. The mbeta subunit folded correctly and was accumulated in the protein body II of rice seeds at a level similar to wild-type beta subunit. Mutant beta subunit purified from transgenic rice seeds exhibited high phagocytosis-stimulating activity, demonstrating its potential value in enhancing the nutritional value of rice.
20382526	In order to establish an efficient bioethanol production system for rice straw, we developed a novel lime-pretreatment process (CaCCO process) that did not require a solid-liquid-separation step. This process adopted a step in which after pretreatment lime was neutralized by carbonation, resulting in a final pH of about 6. CaCO(3) produced by the process was kept in the reaction vessel, and no significant inhibitory effects on enzymatic saccharification and fermentation were observed. In the CaCCO process, solubilized carbohydrates, such as xylan, starch, and sucrose were also kept in the vessel, enabling high recoveries of monomeric sugars. Simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) of pretreated rice straw, 10% (g-rice straw/g-water), using Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia stipitis yielded 19.1 g L(-1) ethanol that was 74% of the theoretical yield from glucose and xylose. Thus, this process represents a novel pretreatment method to utilize not only cellulose but also xylan, starch, and sucrose from biomass.
20382771	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial blight, a serious disease of rice. Our analysis revealed that the X. oryzae pv. oryzae genome encodes genes responsible for iron uptake through FeoB (homolog of the major bacterial ferrous iron transporter) and a siderophore. A mutation in the X. oryzae pv. oryzae feoB gene causes severe virulence deficiency, growth deficiency in iron-limiting medium, and constitutive production of a siderophore. We identified an iron regulated xss gene cluster, in which xssABCDE (Xanthomonas siderophore synthesis) and xsuA (Xanthomonas siderophore utilization) genes encode proteins involved in biosynthesis and utilization of X. oryzae pv. oryzae siderophore. Mutations in the xssA, xssB, and xssE genes cause siderophore deficiency and growth restriction under iron-limiting conditions but are virulence proficient. An xsuA mutant displayed impairment in utilization of native siderophore, suggesting that XsuA acts as a specific receptor for a ferric-siderophore complex. Histochemical and fluorimetric assays with gusA fusions indicate that, during in planta growth, the feoB gene is expressed and that the xss operon is not expressed. This study represents the first report describing a role for feoB in virulence of any plant-pathogenic bacterium and the first functional characterization of a siderophore-biosynthetic gene cluster in any xanthomonad.
20383562	Helicases are motor proteins which can catalyze the unwinding of stable RNA or DNA duplex utilizing mainly ATP as source of energy. In this study we have identified complete sets of helicases from rice and Arabidopsis. The helicase gene family in rice and Arabidopsis contains 115 and 113 genes respectively. These helicases were validated based on their annotations and supported with organization of conserved helicase signature motifs. We have also identified homologs of 64 rice RNA and DNA helicases in Arabidopsis, yeast and human. We explored Arabidopsis oligonucleotide array data to gain functional insights into the transcriptome of helicase family members under ten different stress conditions. Our results revealed that expression of helicase genes is profoundly regulated under various stress conditions. The helicases identified in this study lay a foundation for the in depth characterization of each helicase type.
20385486	Xylan and rice straw were used to produce H(2) via a two-stage approach combining feedstock pretreatment/hydrolysis and dark H(2) fermentation. Acinetobacter junii F6-02 was used to produce cellulolytic enzymes (mainly xylanase) to hydrolyze xylan and pretreated rice straw. The hydrolysates were converted to H(2) by Clostridium butyricum CGS5 via dark fermentation. Investigation of kinetics of xylanase on xylan and NaOH-pretreated rice straw shows nu(max) values of 8.6 and 3.6g/L/h, and K(m) values of 10.6 and 26.9 g/L, respectively. A maximum hydrogen production rate of 62.5 and 26.8 ml/h/L was obtained from hydrolysate of xylan and pretreated rice straw, respectively, while the hydrogen yield was 0.70 and 0.76 mol H(2)/mol xylose, respectively. Simultaneous saccharification and BioH(2) fermentation from xylan was also conducted but giving a lower hydrogen production rate (35.3 ml/h/L) than that of the two-stage process.
20385493	The effects of rice husk, sawdust and rice bran on the composting process of food waste were studied in a 180-L laboratory composter based on a mixture experimental design. Linear and quadratic models of seven important process characteristics (composting and acidification times, lowest and final pH values, highest temperature, the water-soluble organic carbon to water-soluble organic nitrogen (C(OW)/N(OW) ratio), and the water-soluble organic carbon to total organic nitrogen (C(OW)/N(OT)) ratio) in terms of fractional compositions of bulking agents as well as the water absorption capacity and the free air space of the composting matrix were developed.
20385545	Seed storage proteins are of great importance in nutrition and in industrial transformation because of their functional properties. Brachypodium distachyon has been proposed as a new model plant to study temperate cereals. The protein composition of Brachypodium grain was investigated by separating the proteins on the basis of their solubility combined with a proteomic approach. Salt-soluble proteins as well as salt-insoluble proteins separated by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis revealed 284 and 120 spots, respectively. Proteins from the major spots were sequenced by mass spectrometry and identified by searching against a Brachypodium putative protein database. Our analysis detected globulins and prolamins but no albumins. Globulins were represented mainly by the 11S type and their solubility properties corresponded to the glutelin found in rice. An in silico search for storage proteins returned more translated genes than expressed products identified by mass spectrometry, particularly in the case of prolamin type proteins, reflecting a strong expression of globulins at the expense of prolamins. Microscopic examination of endosperm cells revealed scarce small-size starch granules surrounded by protein bodies containing 11S globulins. The presence of protein bodies containing glutelins makes B. distachyon closer to rice or oat than to wheat endosperm.
20387039	Cold stress adversely affects plant growth and development and thus limits crop productivity. Diverse plant species tolerate cold stress to a varying degree, which depends on reprogramming gene expression to modify their physiology, metabolism, and growth. Cold signal in plants is transmitted to activate CBF-dependent (C-repeat/drought-responsive element binding factor-dependent) and CBF-independent transcriptional pathway, of which CBF-dependent pathway activates CBF regulon. CBF transcription factor genes are induced by the constitutively expressed ICE1 (inducer of CBF expression 1) by binding to the CBF promoter. ICE1-CBF cold response pathway is conserved in diverse plant species. Transgenic analysis in different plant species revealed that cold tolerance can be significantly enhanced by genetic engineering CBF pathway. Posttranscriptional regulation at pre-mRNA processing and export from nucleus plays a role in cold acclimation. Small noncoding RNAs, namely micro-RNAs (miRNAs) and small interfering RNAs (siRNAs), are emerging as key players of posttranscriptional gene silencing. Cold stress-regulated miRNAs have been identified in Arabidopsis and rice. In this chapter, recent advances on cold stress signaling and tolerance are highlighted.
20387051	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are approximately 22-nucleotide (nt)-long non-coding RNAs that play a key role in plant development and abiotic stresses. We have developed a simple but effective array platform for profiling plant miRNAs from various plant species. The array is composed of 188 non-redundant miRNA probes that can detect both conserved and species-specific miRNAs from most plant species, including Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar. In this chapter, we describe a protocol for developing the miRNA array platform, which can be used to identify stress-responsive miRNAs in diverse plant species. Profiling of miRNAs in tobacco seedlings exposed to different abiotic stress conditions has revealed that a number of miRNAs, miR398, miR399, miR408, miR156, miR164, and miR168, were responsive to stresses. This comprehensive and easy-to-follow protocol will be useful for studying roles of miRNAs in plant stress response.
20387062	Rice (Oryza sativa L.) is one of the most important food crops worldwide. However, it is also a valuable tool in assessing toxicity of organic and inorganic compounds. For more than 20 years, it has been an approved species for standardized phytotoxicity experiments. The objective of this study is to determine germination and radicle (root) and coleoptile (shoot) growth of rice seeds exposed to three insecticides and two herbicides, commonly used in the agricultural production landscape. Although no germination effects of pesticide exposure were observed, significant growth effects were noted between pesticide treatments. Coleoptile growth was significantly (p ≤ 0.05) lowered in metolachlor/atrazine mixture, diazinon, and lambda-cyhalothrin exposures when compared with controls. Radicles of fipronil-exposed seeds were significantly larger (p ≤ 0.05) when compared with controls. This research contributes to the phytotoxicity assessment database, in addition to laying the foundation for the use of rice as a phytoremediation tool for agricultural pesticide runoff.
20387116	Recent reports have highlighted the need for educational programs to prepare students for careers developing and disseminating new interventions that improve global public health. Because of its multi-disciplinary, design-centered nature, the field of Biomedical Engineering can play an important role in meeting this challenge. This article describes a new program at Rice University to give undergraduate students from all disciplines a broad background in bioengineering and global health and provides an initial assessment of program impact. Working in partnership with health care providers in developing countries, students in the Beyond Traditional Borders (BTB) initiative learn about health challenges of the poor and put this knowledge to work immediately, using the engineering design process as a framework to formulate solutions to complex global health challenges. Beginning with a freshman design project and continuing through a capstone senior design course, the BTB curriculum uses challenges provided by partners in the developing world to teach students to integrate perspectives from multiple disciplines, and to develop leadership, communication, and teamwork skills. Exceptional students implement their designs under the guidance of clinicians through summer international internships. Since 2006, 333 students have designed more than 40 technologies and educational programs; 28 have been implemented in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, the Caribbean, southeast Asia, and the United States. More than 18,000 people have benefited from these designs. 95% of alumni who completed an international internship reported that participation in the program changed or strengthened their career plans to include a focus on global health medicine, research, and/or policy. Empowering students to use bioengineering design to address real problems is an effective way to teach the new generation of leaders needed to solve global health challenges.
20387430	Based on the long-term datasets of soil organic matter content and the observation data of rice paddies' methane (CH4) emission collected from the agricultural experiment stations across the country, the rice paddies in China were divided into single cropping and double cropping regions. The soil carbon sequestration potential of straw return in three types of rice paddies in the two regions, i. e., single cropping rice paddies, upland/paddy alternated rice paddies, and double cropping rice paddies, was evaluated, based on the datasets of soil organic matter content; and the total CH4 emission from rice paddies without straw return was estimated, with reference to the experimental data of paddies' CH4 emission and by the method of mean emission coefficient. The total CH4 emission from our paddies after straw return and the global warming potential of the increased CH4 emission were also estimated by using the related methods and parameters given by IPCC. It was estimated that the full popularization of straw return to China's rice paddies would sequester 10.48 Tg x a(-1) of C, and the contribution to the global warming mitigation was 38.43 Tg CO2-eqv x a(-1). In the meanwhile, the CH4 emission from our rice paddies would be increased from 5.796 Tg x a(-1) to 9.114 Tg x a(-1), and the increased 3.318 Tg x a(-1) of CH4 emission would lead to a global warming potential of 82.95 Tg CO2 -eqv x a(-1), which was 2.158 times of the mitigation from carbon sequestration in rice paddies. Therefore, the increased CH4 emission due to straw return should be regarded as an important greenhouse gas leakage, since it could greatly offset the mitigation benefits of soil carbon sequestration in China's rice paddies.
20387435	Based on the measurements of rice growth and the ordinary meteorological observations from eight main agro-meteorological stations in Jiangsu Province in 1986-2007, this paper analyzed the characteristics of generation circulation corresponding to the abnormal strong and southern subtropical high pressure in 2003 (the year with a typically high temperature), the relationships between the abnormalities of subtropical high pressure and previous sea surface temperature, and the physiological responses of rice to the abnormal high temperature during its crucial development stages. In the meantime, a field correlation analysis was made on the relationships between the harm index of high temperature in the northern (Huaibei), middle (Jianghuai), and southern (Sunan) areas of Jiangsu and the sea surface temperature (SST) of Western Pacific. The results showed that the harm index of high temperature in the three areas was highly correlated with the SST of Nino area, northern area, and warm pool area of Western Pacific, respectively, but the significance and temporal evolution of the correlations varied among the areas. The transformation of SST was conducted to optimize its correlation with the harm index of high temperature, and an increased reliability of SST acting as a predictor of high temperature harm was obtained. The simulation results of the established models in predicting high temperature harm to rice in Huaibei, Jianghuai and Sunan areas of Jiangsu Province were significant at 0.01 level.
20387443	With the method of solid phase microextraction (SPME), a total of twenty-five volatiles were collected from rice plants induced by Nilaparvata lugens, and after applying azadirachtin fourteen of them were qualitatively identified by gas chromatography coupled by mass spectrometry (GC-MS), mainly of nine kinds of sesquiterpenes. Comparing with healthy rice plants, the plants attacked by N. lugens had more kinds of volatiles, including limonene, linalool, methyl salicylate, unknown 6, unknown 7, zingiberene, nerolidol, and hexadecane. Applying azadirachtin did not result in the production of new kind volatiles, but affected the relative concentrations of the volatiles induced by N. lugens. The proportions of limonene, linalool, methyl salicylate, unknown 6, zingiberene, and hexadecane changed obviously with the concentration of applied azadirachtin, while those of methyl salicylate, unknown 6, unknown 7, zingiberene, and nerolidol changed significantly with the days after azadirachtin application. Azadirachtin concentration, rice variety, and N. lugens density had significant interactions on the relative concentrations of all test N. lugens-induced volatiles.
20387456	To demonstrate the novel regulatory pathways mediated in bacterial pathogenicity and motility in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the casual agent of bacterial blight in rice. Molecular identification and functional characterization of Tdrxoo, which interacts with GacAxoo of the two-component regulatory system (GacSxoo/GacAxoo) in Xoo, were performed through gene cloning, sequencing and disrupt analysis. tdrxoo was successfully cloned from the genomic DNA of wild-type PXO99(A) by using polymerase chain reactions with the degenerated primers tdrxooF/R. The tdrxoo gene was found to be highly conserved in the plant-pathogenic Xanthomonas spp. Sequence analysis showed that Tdrxoo was homological to a protein with the TonB-Dependent-Receptor (TDR) domain. Tdrxoo is probably localized in the outer membrane of bacterial cells, recognizing the signals from extracellular environment, and inducing the intracellular signal transduction. delta tdrxoo, the disrupted mutant, was obtained after a single cross-over recombination event between tdrxoo and the plasmid pK-tdr with the tdrxoo segment. The mutant lost the ability of causing the disease, and was affected in growth in vitro compared to PXO99(A). In addition, the motility and the extracellular enzymes production of delta tdrxoo were reduced, which can be restored through complementation of the delta tdrxoo mutant by introduction of tdrxoo. tdrxoo deficiency didn't affect siderophore production. According to the existence of tdrxoo in Xoo genome and phenotype of delta tdrxoo, Tdrxoo, as the outer membrance protein, is proposed to be involved in regulation of pathogenicity, extracellular enzyme production, the growth and motility of Xoo.
20388284	A 2-yr study was conducted to evaluate the tillering and yield response of rice, Oryza sativa L., whose culms were injured artificially or by larval sugarcane borers, Diatraea saccharalis (F.). Artificially injured plants produced approximately 0.49 more tillers than uninjured plants, similar to what has previously been reported for larval injured plants. In contrast, artificial injury did not affect yield per tiller, whereas larval injury did. The proximity of larval injury to the panicle had a negative impact on tiller yield, whereas artificial injury did not. Artificial injury apparently resulted in less injury to vascular tissue than did sugarcane borer larval injury. Until an artificial method of injury is developed that mimics the effects of larval feeding, further injury studies will continue to require sugarcane borer larvae.
20388307	Nontarget impacts of six transgenic Bt rice lines (expressing the Cry1Ab or Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac protein) on the thrips, Stenchaetothrips biformis (Bagnall), attacking the rice seedling and tillering stages, were evaluated under laboratory and field conditions. Laboratory results showed relatively longer larval, pupal development and preoviposition durations of S. biformis. Although it had a shorter oviposition period, female adult longevity and less total laid eggs were found when fed on some tested Bt rice in comparison to non-Bt controls. S. biformis population dynamics in Bt and non-Bt plots were monitored using the plastic bag and beat plate methods. In the field, the temporal patterns of S. biformis population changes were similar between tested Bt rice lines and their respective control; however, the total number of S. biformis individuals collected from the Bt plots were significantly less or the same, varying from variety to variety, compared with those from the non-Bt plots. ELISA results showed that the Bt insecticidal protein could be transferred from Bt rice to the thrips, and the concentrations of the protein in rice leaves and thrips were not significantly correlated with some important biological parameters of the thrip. In addition, the potential effects of Bt rice on the abundance of S. biformis candidate predators are also discussed. In conclusion, our results show that the six Bt rice lines assessed may be less preferable host plants to S. biformis at the individual and population levels in comparison to the non-Bt rice plants.
20390245	Root system development is an important target for improving yield in cereal crops. Active root systems that can take up nutrients more efficiently are essential for enhancing grain yield. In this study, we attempted to identify quantitative trait loci (QTL) involved in root system development by measuring root length of rice seedlings grown in hydroponic culture. Reliable growth conditions for estimating the root length were first established to renew nutrient solutions daily and supply NH4(+) as a single nitrogen source. Thirty-eight chromosome segment substitution lines derived from a cross between 'Koshihikari', a japonica variety, and 'Kasalath', an indica variety, were used to detect QTL for seminal root length of seedlings grown in 5 or 500 microM NH4(+). Eight chromosomal regions were found to be involved in root elongation. Among them, the most effective QTL was detected on a 'Kasalath' segment of SL-218, which was localized to the long-arm of chromosome 6. The 'Kasalath' allele at this QTL, qRL6.1, greatly promoted root elongation under all NH4(+) concentrations tested. The genetic effect of this QTL was confirmed by analysis of the near-isogenic line (NIL) qRL6.1. The seminal root length of the NIL was 13.5-21.1% longer than that of 'Koshihikari' under different NH4(+) concentrations. Toward our goal of applying qRL6.1 in a molecular breeding program to enhance rice yield, a candidate genomic region of qRL6.1 was delimited within a 337 kb region in the 'Nipponbare' genome by means of progeny testing of F2 plants/F3 lines derived from a cross between SL-218 and 'Koshihikari'.
20390902	The effect of organic carbon addition on remediation of trichloroethylene (TCE) contaminated clay soil was investigated using a two stage anaerobic-aerobic composting system. TCE removal rate and processes involved were determined. Uncontaminated clay soil was treated with composting materials (dried cow manure, rice husk and cane molasses) to represent carbon based treatments (5%, 10% and 20% OC). All treatments were spiked with TCE at 1,000 mg TCE/kg DW and incubated under anaerobic and mesophillic condition (35 degrees C) for 8 weeks followed by continuous aerobic condition for another 6 weeks. TCE dissipation, its metabolites and biogas composition were measured throughout the experimental period. Results show that TCE degradation depended upon the amount of organic carbon (OC) contained within the composting treatments/matrices. The highest TCE removal percentage (97%) and rate (75.06 micro Mole/kg DW/day) were obtained from a treatment of 10% OC composting matrices as compared to 87% and 27.75 micro Mole/kg DW/day for 20% OC, and 83% and 38.08 micro Mole/kg DW/day for soil control treatment. TCE removal rate was first order reaction kinetics. Highest degradation rate constant (k(1) = 0.035 day(- 1)) was also obtained from the 10% OC treatment, followed by 20% OC (k(1) = 0.026 day(- 1)) and 5% OC or soil control treatment (k(1) = 0.023 day(- 1)). The half-life was 20, 27 and 30 days, respectively. The overall results suggest that sequential two stages anaerobic-aerobic composting technique has potential for remediation of TCE in heavy texture soil, providing that easily biodegradable source of organic carbon is present.
20390928	The content and spectral characteristics of cytochrome P450 (Cyt P450) and cytochrome b(5) (Cyt b(5)) extracted from shoots of etiolated maize and rice seedlings were studied by using ultraviolet (UV) difference spectrophotometry. The results showed that fenclorim, rac-metolachlor and S-metolachlor may induce the same P450 isoenzyme with lambda(max) at 453 nm, while naphthalic anhydride (NA) induced another one with lambda(max) at 447 nm. The microsomal Cyt P450 and Cyt b(5) content of maize seedlings was higher than that of rice, and the Cyt b(5) content was higher than that of Cyt P450. Maize and rice microsomal Cyt P450 and Cyt b(5) were induced at different levels by the four chemicals, with the order as follows: NA > fenclorim > rac-metolachlor > S-metolachlor with p < 0.05. When induced by NA, fenclorim, rac-metolachlor and S-metolachlor, the maize Cyt P450 content was, respectively, 5.63-, 3.30-, 3.02- and 2.48-fold that of the control, the rice Cyt P450 content was 8.54-, 2.20-, 1.91- and 1.33-fold that of the control, the maize Cyt b(5) content was 9.89-, 5.49-, 4.69- and 3.40-fold that of the control, and the rice Cyt b(5) content was 7.76-, 4.56-, 2.60- and 1.82-fold that of the control. An enantio-difference existed when rac- and S-metolachlor combined with plant Cyt P450. The interaction of microsomal Cyt P450 with S-metolachlor is higher than that with rac-metolachlor, which may be one of the reasons why S-metolachlor is superior at killing weeds compared with rac-metolachlor. These results will help to develop an understanding of the tolerance for and selectivity of rac- and S-metolachlor.
20390966	For the past few years, a large number of diesel vehicles carrying gravel and sand have shuttled back and forth every day on the main route (Tai-16 and Tai-21 highways) from Shuili to Shinyi in Nantou County, Taiwan, in support of a river-dredging project. Five stations along Tai-16 and three stations along Tai-21 were selected as the exposure sites. Two very small villages located about 9 and 12 kilometers, respectively, away from the diesel transport routes were selected as the control sites. In this study, five exposure pathways, i.e., ingestion from drinking water, household dust, rice, non-rice dishes, and inhalation from airborne particles, were considered. The daily intake doses of metals varied significantly among the five exposure pathways. There was a significant difference between the exposure and control sites regarding the doses of metals obtained from the exposure pathways of household dust and aerosols. However, regarding the exposure pathways of rice, non-rice dishes, and drinking water, no significant difference between the exposure and the control sites was observed for most metals. Residents who lived within 30 meters of diesel transport roads at the exposure sites were selected as the exposure groups for urine sampling, while residents of the control sites were selected as the control groups. The metal concentrations in the urine of the exposure groups were all higher than those of the control groups. With regards to the urinary metals Fe, Pb, Cu, Ni, and Mo, the levels of urinary metals in residents and the daily intakes of metals from the five exposure pathways showed that the exposure pathways from environmental media (i.e., drinking water, aerosols, and household dust) were a greater factor than food pathways (i.e., rice and non-rice dishes) in the resulting comparative differences between urinary concentration levels of Fe, Pb, Cu, and Mo in exposure groups and control groups. However, the food exposure pathways, rather than the environmental pathways, led to greater comparative differences between the urinary concentration levels of Mn within the two groups.
20391722	The statistical characteristics of plant uptake factor (PUF) of As, Cd and Pb for rice/wheat cereal were analyzed and summarized based on collected data in China. The data were selected and distinguished between field investigation and glasshouse experiment in which metal salts were added to clean soils as grown media. Results showed that the PUF median and range of As, Cd and Pb for rice cereal were 0.026 (0.004-0.090), 0.150 (0.014-1.470), 0.005 (0.001-0.031) and 0.010 (0.003-0.033), 0.360 (0.056-1.700), 0.002 (0.001-0.019) for field investigation and salt added experiment respectively. The PUF median and range of As, Cd and Pb for wheat cereal were 0.010 (0.001-0.110), 0.190 (0.030-2.110), 0.017 (0.001-0.075) and 0.010 (0.003-0.028), 0.150 (0.055-0.730), 0.001 (0.001-0.014) for field investigation and salt added experiment respectively. Significant PUF distribution differences were found between field investigation and salt added experiment. PUF provided not exactly predictive ability of metal uptake by crops since the PUF values were influenced by a variety of factors including the soil contamination levels, basic soils characteristics, the cultivation of the crops and other environmental conditions. However, the ln (PUF) followed Gaussian distribution (R2 = 0.38-0.94) which is useful for general risk assessment and soil benchmark derivation of contaminated croplands. Use of these statistical models is restricted to the range of data they have been derived, as extrapolation outside this range is often unreliable. Soil properties and surrounding environment of the crops should also be in accordance with the conditions PUF derived.
20391723	The objective of study was to investigate the effect of the amount of iron plaque of root surface on As uptake by rice seedlings grown on 14 types of soils. These results indicated that there were significant differences in the amounts of iron plaque (1.15-61.97 mg/g) formed on rice root surface among different soils. The amount of non-crystalloid Fe oxide in different submerged soils is one of main influencing factors. There was a significant positive correlation between As concentrations in iron plaque (0-1376 mg/kg) and the amount of iron plaque (r = 0.85, n=14, p < 0.05), but no significant correlation with the extractable As concentration of 14 types of soils. There were also significant positive correlation between As concentrations in shoot (0.400-12.98 mg/kg) and root (3.860-576.2 mg/kg) and the amounts of iron plaque respectively but not significant correlation with the extractable As concentrations of 14 types of soils (r = 0.88, n=14, p < 0.05; r = 0.91, n=14, p < 0.05). Moreover, there was a significant positive correlation between specific arsenic uptake (0.005-0.670 mg/g) and the amount of iron plaque (r = 0.91, n=14, p < 0.05). However, there was no significant correlation between shoot-As% and the amount of iron plaque. These results showed that the iron plaque on root surface was the pool of As in rhizosphere and increased As uptake but did not affect As transportation from rice root to shoot.
20392444	We aimed to determine the influence of apolipoprotein A5 gene (APOA5)-1131T>C single nucleotide polymorphism on the effects of dietary intervention and regular exercise (DIRE) targeting ApoA5 and triglyceride (TG) concentrations. Hypertriglyceridemia patients (TG, 150-500mg/dL, n=283) undertook a 12-week DIRE (replacing 1/3 of refined rice in their diets with legumes, increasing vegetable intake, and regular walking). Pre-treatment, no genotype-related differences were detected in ApoA5, TG, or HDL cholesterol levels; however, post-treatment, subjects homozygous (T/T) for the T allele had lower serum TG (P=0.009) and higher HDL cholesterol (P=0.036) than other subjects. In T/T subjects, after adjustments for age, sex and weight changes (r1) or initial TG levels (r2), changes in ApoA5 levels negatively correlated with TG changes (r1=-0.29, P=0.05, r2=-0.28, P<0.1) and positively correlated with changes in HDL cholesterol (r1=0.30, P<0.05, r2=0.32, P<0.05) and free fatty acid (r1=0.38, P<0.01, r2=0.40, P<0.01). In those with moderate hypertriglyceridemia (TG, 200-500mg/dL, n=130), APOA5-1131T/T carriers achieved significantly lower TG (P=0.007) and higher HDL cholesterol (P<0.001) than -1131C allele carriers. Additionally, statistically significant interactions between the -1131T>C and the compliance of DIRE were found for the change in TG (P=0.002) and HDL cholesterol (P=0.039). In good compliance group, T/T subjects showed greater reduction of TG and higher increase of HDL cholesterol than other subjects. On the other hand, non-good compliance group had no significant improvement in these variables. APOA5-1131T/T carriers may benefit more from the DIRE than C allele carriers. These effects were remarkable in patients with moderate hypertriglyceridemia and the individuals with good compliance.
20392520	Leaf growth is one of the first physiological processes affected by changes in plant water status under drought. A decrease in leaf expansion rate usually precedes any reduction in stomatal conductance or photosynthesis. Changes in leaf size and stomatal opening are potential adaptive mechanisms, which may help avoid drought by reducing transpiration rate, and can be used to improve rice genotypes in water-saving cultivation. The indica rice cultivar IR64 and four of its near-isogenic lines (NILs; BC(3)-derived lines) unique for leaf size traits, YTK 124 (long leaves), YTK 127 (broad leaves), YTK 205 (short leaves) and YTK 214 (narrow leaves), were compared in this study for changes in leaf growth and its water status. The plants were subjected to two soil water regimes, well-watered and progressive soil drying measured by the fraction of transpirable soil water (FTSW). Applied drought reduced leaf number, total leaf area, specific leaf area, plant biomass, tiller number, plant height, stomatal conductance, amount of water transpired, leaf relative water content, and leaf water potential more in IR64 and the NILs than in the respective controls; nonetheless, transpiration efficiency (TE) was slightly higher under drought than in the well-watered controls. NILs with broader leaves had higher biomass (and its individual components), less stomatal conductance, and higher TE under drought than NILs with narrow and shorter leaves. Under drought, leaf number was positively correlated with tiller number and plant height; nonetheless, root weight and total biomass, water transpired and TE, and plant height and TE were positively correlated with each other. However, a negative correlation was observed between stomatal conductance and the FTSW threshold at which normalized transpiration started to decline during soil drying. Overall, the IR64-derived lines with broader leaves performed better than NILs with narrow and short leaves under drought.
20395139	Microwaves can be a more efficient method than traditional thermal treatment to deliver the energy required for heating in solvent-oil extraction due to its volumetric, direct coupling with the material. An understanding of the behavior of dielectric properties of solvent-feedstock mixtures is important for designing and optimizing any microwave-based extraction process. In this study rice bran and soybean flour were mixed separately with four different solvents (methanol, ethanol, hexane and isopropanol) at different ratios (1:2, 1:1, 2:1 w/w). For the samples mixed with ethanol, the dielectric properties were measured at 23, 30, 40 and 50 degrees C, while for all other sample-solvent mixtures experiments were performed at room temperature. Dielectric properties were determined using a vector network analyzer and dielectric probe kit using the open-ended coaxial probe method in the frequency range of 300 MHz to 3 GHz. Results from the study indicate that dielectric constants were dependent on frequency and were strongly influenced by temperature, mix ratio and solvent type. The dielectric loss of all mixtures except those with hexane (which were virtually zero) varied with frequency and temperature, solvent type, and mix ratio. Most of the results presented are emphasized at 433, 915 and 2450 MHz, frequencies allocated by the Federal Communication Commission (F.C.C.) for microwave applications. The results of the study, presented here for the first time to our knowledge, will help in selection of appropriate solvent, mixing ratio and frequency for designing microwave-assisted oil extraction systems.
20395184	Thickened infant formulas, specially formulated to increase the viscosity, are commonly used in the treatment of regurgitation in the non-complicated gastroesophageal reflux. To analyse viscosity and the rheological behaviour of different thickened standard formulas on the Spanish market compared to a standard formula with or without the addition of 10 g/100mL of gluten-free cereals. Viscosity of the samples was evaluated in a Bohlim CS-1o controlled-stress rheometer and was performed at basal conditions (25 degrees C, pH 7) and at simulated gastric conditions (37 degrees C, pH 4 and 10 g/100mL of pepsin) at time 0, 30 and after 60 min of incubation. Values were expressed as centipoises (cp) (1 cp=1/100 p). All formulas show a viscosity increase both in basal conditions and in gastric simulated conditions but the behaviour is very heterogeneous. Formulas containing bean gum (carob seed flour) with 2.9 g/100g and a protein ratio similar to cow's milk (80 casein/20 whey) showed the highest and consistent viscosity (70 cp and 90 cp), with significant differences compared to the standard formula in all the measurements. When this thickener is in formulas with a protein ratio similar to breast milk (40 casein/60 whey) the viscosity was lower and reached 50 cp only with the thickener at a concentration of 4.7 gr/100g, achieving significant differences versus standard formula. The formulas with starch thickeners (rice, potatoes and corn) achieved a lower and less consistent viscosity, with no significant difference. The viscosity reached after the addition of cereals both in basal conditions and in gastric simulated conditions was similar to that achieved with more effective thickeners. Lipid concentration is not involved in viscosity and rheological behaviour. The viscosity of the thickened infant formula depends on the agent used, concentration and protein ratio. Not all reach a viscosity of 50 cp, hypothetical value to reach, since it doubles the viscosity of a standard formula. The ideal viscosity to be reached and the role of other components of the formula in the viscosity and rheological behaviour is still unclear.
20395279	Mitogen-Activated Protein Kinase Kinase Kinases (MAPKKKs) are important components of MAPK cascades, which are universal signal transduction modules and play important role in plant growth and development. In the sequenced Arabidopsis genome 80 MAPKKKs were identified and currently being analysed for its role in different stress. In rice, economically important monocot cereal crop only five MAPKKKs were identified so far. In this study using computational analysis of sequenced rice genome we have identified 75 MAPKKKs. EST hits and full-length cDNA sequences (from KOME or Genbank database) of 75 MAPKKKs supported their existence. Phylogenetic analyses of MAPKKKs from rice and Arabidopsis have classified them into three subgroups, which include Raf, ZIK and MEKK. Conserved motifs in the deduced amino acid sequences of rice MAPKKKs strongly supported their identity as members of Raf, ZIK and MEKK subfamilies. Further expression analysis of the MAPKKKs in MPSS database revealed that their transcripts were differentially regulated in various stress and tissue-specific libraries.
20395452	Grass plants develop distinct inflorescences and spikelets that determine grain yields. However, the mechanisms underlying the specification of inflorescences and spikelets in grasses remain largely unknown. Here, we report the biological role of one SEPALLATA (SEP)-like gene, OsMADS34, in controlling the development of inflorescences and spikelets in rice (Oryza sativa). OsMADS34 encodes a MADS box protein containing a short carboxyl terminus without transcriptional activation activity in yeast cells. We demonstrate the ubiquitous expression of OsMADS34 in roots, leaves, and primordia of inflorescence and spikelet organs. Compared with the wild type, osmads34 mutants developed altered inflorescence morphology, with an increased number of primary branches and a decreased number of secondary branches. In addition, osmads34 mutants displayed a decreased spikelet number and altered spikelet morphology, with lemma/leaf-like elongated sterile lemmas. Moreover, analysis of the double mutant osmads34 osmads1 suggests that OsMADS34 specifies the identities of floral organs, including the lemma/palea, lodicules, stamens, and carpel, in combination with another rice SEP-like gene, OsMADS1. Collectively, our study suggests that the origin and diversification of OsMADS34 and OsMADS1 contribute to the origin of distinct grass inflorescences and spikelets.
20396010	Experimental results are presented for the statistics of 0.6328-microm laser irradiance fluctuations for multiple-pass propagation through a laboratory-simulated atmospheric turbulence of strength C(2)(n) = 2.476 x 10(-11) m(-2/3) and the smallest scale size l(0) = 2.74 mm. The coefficients of variation gamma(0), skewness gamma(1), and excess gamma(2) of irradiance fluctuations are plotted as a function of path length. From the plots of gamma(2) vs gamma(1) for various values of sigma(2)(1) (= 1.23 k(7/6) C(2)(n)L(11/6)) in different regions within the turbulence, the following forms of the probability distribution functions for the irradiance fluctuations are considered: lognormal, Rice-Nakagami, m distribution, gamma (and exponential), and K distribution. We have also demonstrated the characteristic feature of -8/3 power law behavior of power spectrum and the shift of Tatarski's peak frequency in the case of strong turbulence.
20396164	The results of a Monte Carlo calculation of the probability distribution of the far-field irradiance produced by a thin turbulent layer placed in front of a finite-aperture transmitter are discussed. These results clearly show that Rice-Nakagami and other well-known distributions such as the lognormal distribution are inapplicable to this problem.
20396901	The 4SN-Tudor domain protein is an almost ubiquitous eukaryotic protein with four Staphylococcal nuclease domains at the N terminus and a Tudor domain towards the C terminus. It has been found that Tudor-SN protein has multiple roles in governing gene expression during cell growth and development in animals. In plant, although Tudor-SN orthologs have been found in rice, pea and Arabidopsis, and are associated with cytoskeleton, their roles in growth and development are poorly understood. In this study, we investigated the function of Arabidopsis Tudor-SN protein, AtTudor. Our results indicated that the expression of AtTudor2 in seeds was evidently higher than in other tissues. Furthermore, we found that the expression of a key enzyme for GA biosynthesis, AtGA20ox3, was downregulated obviously in AtTudor2 T-DNA insertion mutant and AtTudor1/AtTudor2 RNAi transgenic lines. Together, our results suggest that AtTudor2 is involved in GA biosynthesis and seed germination of Arabidopsis.
20396917	RNA interference is a natural defense against viruses in plants. To date, the only viral siRNAs characterized have been those for positive-sense RNA viruses with one or two genome components. Here, we characterized siRNAs derived from rice stripe virus (RSV), a member of the genus Tenuivirus with four genomic RNAs and an ambisense coding strategy. Deep sequencing of small RNAs from infected rice leaves showed that siRNAs were derived almost equally from virion and complementary RNA strands and were mostly 20-22 nucleotides long. Most viral siRNAs were produced within the coding sequences and 5' termini of the RSV genome. RSV siRNAs had a higher G and lower C content than the viral genome but a strong A/U bias at the first nucleotide and a U bias at the final one, suggesting preferential targeting of such sequences by rice Dicer-like proteins.
20396978	Brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål) is one of the major insect pests of rice. A Sri Lankan indica rice cultivar Rathu Heenati was found to be resistant to all biotypes of the brown planthopper. In the present study, a total of 268 F(7) RILs of IR50 and Rathu Heenati were phenotyped for their level of resistance against BPH by the standard seedbox screening test (SSST) in the greenhouse. A total of 53 SSR primers mapped on the chromosome 3 were used to screen the polymorphism between the parents IR50 and Rathu Heenati, out of which eleven were found to be polymorphic between IR50 and Rathu Heenati. The eleven primers that have shown polymorphism between the IR50 and Rathu Heenati parents were genotyped in a set of five resistant RILs and five susceptible RILs along with the parents for co-segregation analysis. Among the eleven primers, two primers namely RM3180 (18.22 Mb) and RM2453 (20.19 Mb) showed complete co-segregation with resistance. The identification of SSR markers linked with BPH resistant could be used for the maker assisted selection (MAS) program in rice breeding and to map the resistant genes on rice chromosomes for further gene cloning.
20397089	This study was conducted to estimate the total daily dietary intakes of the five heavy metals As, Cd, Cr, Hg, and Pb for residents living in five villages located in the Zhejiang province of China. The highest dietary intakes of the five heavy metals were all observed in the four e-waste disassembly localities. These findings suggested that these metals from e-waste might have entered into the food chain. Rice appeared to be the food group showing the highest contribution to the individual dietary intakes of the individual metals. The dietary intakes of As for residents living in the five study localities were approximately 1.3 to 3.4 times higher than the pTDI (140 microg day(-1)). In comparing with those results reported recently in the literature, residents living in the disassembly localities appeared to be at greater health risks of As, Cr, Hg, and Pb than those living in the control town.
20397802	Self-poisoning with herbicides is an important reason for hospital admission and death in Asia. Although some herbicides have a well-described toxicity profile in humans, many of the newer compounds rely on extrapolation from animal results as no published literature on clinical outcomes of human self-poisoning has been described. One example of these compounds is bispyribac, a selective herbicide used in rice and wheat cultivation that is marketed in two containers, one containing bispyribac 400 g/L with a solvent and the other the surfactant, polyethylene glycol. We present the first case series of acute human self-poisoning with an herbicide product containing bispyribac. Clinical data for all patients who presented with acute poisoning from a bispyribac-containing herbicide (Nominee) to two general hospitals in Sri Lanka from June 2002 to January 2009 were collected prospectively. Admission and serial blood samples were collected from consenting patients to confirm exposure and to study the toxicokinetics of bispyribac, respectively. One hundred ten patients with a history of bispyribac ingestion presented after a median time of 4 h post-ingestion. There were three deaths at 15, 6, and 5 h post-ingestion because of asystolic cardiac arrest. All three patients had reduced Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) (3, 12, and 13, respectively) of whom the former two had co-ingested ethanol and developed tonic-clonic seizures. Admission blood sample was obtained from the former two of these patients but bispyribac was detected in only one of these patients. The other patient presented 2.5 h post-ingestion with a GCS of 12 but bispyribac was not detected. Excluding the patient with undetectable bispyribac, a conservative estimate of the case fatality ratio at 1.81% (95% confidence interval 0.32-5.8) can be made. The majority of the remaining patients had self-limiting upper gastrointestinal symptoms and eight patients had an abnormal GCS on presentation to hospital. The overall median hospital stay was 3 days. Bispyribac was not detectable on admission in 21 patients; in the remaining patients, the median plasma concentration was 50.55 microg/mL (interquartile range 1.28-116.5; n=32). The peak concentration was noted around 3 h post-ingestion and plasma bispyribac concentration did not predict the severity of poisoning. The majority of patients developed self-resolving symptoms and were successfully managed in rural general hospitals without transfer to larger tertiary hospitals. Patients who died developed significant poisoning within 6 h and plasma bispyribac concentrations did not appear to predict mortality. The lack of correlation between bispyribac outcomes and the available plasma concentrations may be because of exposure to nonbispyribac components or other undefined factors. Clinical outcomes from acute self-poisoning with bispyribac-containing herbicides appear to be relatively more favorable than other commonly used herbicides.
20399533	In the present study, we investigated the effect of heat shock (HS) on the subsequent Cd-induced decrease in the activity of glutamine synthetase (GS) and increase in the specific activity of protease in rice leaves. HS exposure of rice seedlings for 3h in the dark was effective in reducing subsequent Cd-induced decrease in the activity of glutamine synthetase and increase in the specific activity of protease. The effect of HS can be mimicked by pretreatment of rice seedlings with exogenous H(2)O(2) or reduced glutathione (GSH) under non-HS conditions. We also found that HS protected against subsequent Cd-induced decrease in the activity of GS and increase in the specific activity of protease can be counteracted by imidazole, a NADPH oxidase inhibitor. Pretreatment with buthione sulfoximine (a GSH synthesis inhibitor) under HS conditions enhanced subsequent Cd effects on the activity of GS and the specific activity of protease. Moreover, the effect of BSO can be reversed by the addition of GSH. The mechanisms of the protective effect of HS effect against subsequent Cd effects are discussed.
20400324	Stored starch generally consists of two d-glucose homopolymers, the linear polymer amylose and a highly branched glucan amylopectin that connects linear chains. Amylopectin structurally contributes to the crystalline organization of the starch granule in cereals. In the endosperm, amylopectin biosynthesis requires the proper execution of a coordinated series of enzymatic reactions involving ADP glucose pyrophosphorylase (AGPase), soluble starch synthase (SS), starch branching enzyme (BE), and starch debranching enzyme (DBE), whereas amylose is synthesized by AGPase and granule-bound starch synthase (GBSS). It is highly possible that plastidial starch phosphorylase (Pho1) plays an important role in the formation of primers for starch biosynthesis in the endosperm. Recent advances in our understanding of the functions of individual enzyme isoforms have provided new insights into how linear polymer chains and branch linkages are synthesized in cereals. In particular, genetic analyses of a suite of mutants have formed the basis of a new model outlining the role of various enzyme isoforms in cereal starch production. In our current review, we summarize the recent research findings related to starch biosynthesis in cereal endosperm, with a particular focus on rice.
20400938	The plant hormone gibberellin (GA) is crucial for multiple aspects of plant growth and development. To study the relevant regulatory mechanisms, we isolated a rice mutant earlier flowering1, el1, which is deficient in a casein kinase I that has critical roles in both plants and animals. el1 had an enhanced GA response, consistent with the suppression of EL1 expression by exogenous GA(3). Biochemical characterization showed that EL1 specifically phosphorylates the rice DELLA protein SLR1, proving a direct evidence for SLR1 phosphorylation. Overexpression of SLR1 in wild-type plants caused a severe dwarf phenotype, which was significantly suppressed by EL1 deficiency, indicating the negative effect of SLR1 on GA signalling requires the EL1 function. Further studies showed that the phosphorylation of SLR1 is important for maintaining its activity and stability, and mutation of the candidate phosphorylation site of SLR1 results in the altered GA signalling. This study shows EL1 a novel and key regulator of the GA response and provided important clues on casein kinase I activities in GA signalling and plant development.
20401518	Rice husk (RH) agro-waste was used as a raw material for synthesizing mesoporous molecular sieves, MCM-41. The Fe-MCM-41 was prepared by the hydrothermal technique (HT), resulting in a higher surface area and crystallinity than when prepared under ambient conditions. In addition, a hexagonal structure was clearly seen with hydrothermal technique (HT) preparation. The adsorption of arsenate by HT-Fe-MCM-41 was investigated. The factors studied affecting arsenate adsorption capacity were ferric content in MCM-41, contact time, pH of solution, and initial arsenate concentration. It was found that HT-Fe-MCM-41 at the Si/Fe mole ratio of 10 gave the highest adsorption capacity. Arsenate adsorption reached equilibrium within 4 h. The adsorption capacity of HT-Fe-MCM-41 (Si/Fe = 10) was affected by the initial pH value and the initial arsenate concentration. The adsorption capacity was highest at pH 3 and decreased thereafter with increases in the pH of solution value. The Langmuir model fit the arsenate adsorption isotherm well. The maximum adsorption capacity for arsenate was 1,111 microg g(-1).
20401609	Siboglinid tubeworms in cold seep sediments can locally modify the geochemical gradients of electron acceptors and donors, hence creating potential microhabitats for prokaryotic populations. The archaeal communities associated with sediments populated by Oligobrachia haakonmosbiensis and Sclerolinum contortum Siboglinid tubeworms in the Storegga Slide were examined in this study. Vertical distribution of archaeal communities was investigated using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis based on 16S rRNA genes. The active fraction of the archaeal community was assessed by using reverse-transcribed rRNA. Archaeal communities associated with sediments colonized by tubeworms were affiliated with uncultivated archaeal lineages of the Crenarchaeota and Euryarchaeota. The composition of the active archaeal populations changed with depth indicating a reorganization of microbial communities. 16S rRNA gene libraries were dominated by sequences affiliated to the Rice Cluster V which are unusual in marine sediment samples. Moreover, this study provides the first evidence of living Crenarchaeota of the Rice Cluster V in cold seep sediments. Furthermore, the Storegga Slide sediments harbored a high diversity of other minor groups of uncultivated lineages including Terrestrial Miscellaneous Euryarchaeotal Group, Marine Benthic Group (MBG)-D, MBG-E, Deep-Sea Hydrothermal Vent Euryarchaeotal Group, Lake Dagow Sediment, Val Kotinen Lake clade III, and Sippenauer Moor 1. Thus, we hypothesize that the vertical geochemical imprint created by the tubeworms could support broad active archaeal populations in the Siboglinidae-populated Storegga Slide sediments.
20401831	Yeasts frequently colonize various kinds of domestic animals, but may also cause serious diseases. The aim of this study was to identify yeast isolates collected from dogs, cows and pigs, and to determine their in vitro antifungal susceptibility. Fifty-six yeast isolates from dogs (n = 24), cows (n = 20), and pigs (n = 12) were investigated. Appearance of colonies grown on Sabouraud agar, micromorphology on rice agar, as well as assimilation and fermentation of various carbon and nitrogen sources were evaluated. Susceptibility to six antifungals (flucytosine, amphotericin B, miconazole, ketoconazole, itraconazole and fluconazole) was determined semiquantitatively using the commercially available Fungitest kit (Bio-Rad Laboratories). Ten yeast species were identified in dogs with relatively even distribution. On the other hand, cow and pig were clearly dominated by Candida krusei (from 7 species) and Candida rugosa (from 5 species), respectively. Further, most of yeast isolates exhibited good susceptibility to the antifungals tested particularly to amphotericin B, ketoconazole and itraconazole. Based on results, it can be concluded that significant differences in the species spectrum and distribution were documented between groups of yeasts from dogs, cows and pigs. This is probably due to different environmental conditions and the endogenous origin of the yeast isolates. Mostly good susceptibility to systemic antifungals should positively influence the therapy of diseases caused by yeasts in veterinary medicine.
20402348	The predatory ability of adult Japanese diving beetles on 4th instars of the Japanese encephalitis vector mosquito, Culex tritaeniorhynchus, was assessed under laboratory conditions. To determine the differences in the predatory ability among 14 beetle species inhabiting rice fields, the following species were introduced to 10 Cx. tritaeniorhynchus 4th instars in a plastic cup: 5 small-bodied species (< 9 mm in body length) comprising Hydroglyphus japonicus, Noterus japonicus, Laccophilus difficilis, Hyphydrus japonicus, and Agabusjaponicus; 7 medium-bodied species (9-20 mm in body length) comprising Hydaticus rhantoides, Hydaticus grammicus, Rhantus suturalis, Eretes griseus, Hydaticus bowringii, Agabus conspicuous, and Graphoderus adamsii; and 2 large-bodied species (> 20 mm) comprising Cybister brevis and C. japonicus. The average 24-h predation rate was highest in medium-bodied species (> 90%), followed by small-bodied species (31%) and large-bodied species (19%). The functional responses to Cx. tritaeniorhynchus larvae of 3 medium-bodied species (H. grammicus, R. suturalis, and E. griseus) were estimated. Eretes griseus exhibited the highest attach rate and shortest prey-handling time, suggesting that medium-bodied diving beetles, especially E. griseus, may be efficient predators of mosquito larvae in rice fields.
20402361	Experiments were conducted to determine the residual efficacy of both a briquette and a granular formulation (2 rates) of a numbered spinosad compound against Psorophora columbiae larvae in small rice plots. Comparisons were also made between the numbered compounds and labeled granular and briquette formulations of methoprene. Both rates of the spinosad granules had the highest initial efficacy (100% control), with the spinosad briquette being the least effective. However, 1 wk after treatment, the spinosad briquette was equally effective to both spinosad granules, suggesting a slow release in the briquette. The experimental briquette and the high rate of the experimental granules had the most residual activity, providing over 80% control for 33 days posttreatment. The granular methoprene formulation was the least residually effective compound, providing only 12% control at 7 days posttreatment.
20402786	A survey of the endophytic fungal community of wild rice (Oryza granulata) in China was conducted. Two isolates recovered from healthy roots are assumed to be dark septate endophytes (DSEs). They are morphologically similar to species from the genus Harpophora and are identified as a new species, Harpophora oryzae, based on the molecular phylogeny and morphological characteristics. A neighbor-joining tree constructed from ITS-5.8S rRNA gene regions reveals that H. oryzae forms a distinctive subclade within the genus Harpophora, and is not genetically close to other species of Harpophora. Harpophora oryzae exhibits a moderate growth rate, with a frequent production of rope-like strands. It sporulates readily on artificial medium. Phialides are usually flask or bottle shaped and occur singly along hyphae or laterally and terminally on branched, hyaline to brown conidiophores, and also form whorls on metulae. Conidiophores are mostly branched with a slightly thickened wall, varying in dimensions. Conidia are one-celled and hyaline, most of them being falcate and strongly curved. The morphological differences between Harpophora spp. and Harpophora-like anamorphs representing different orders are also discussed. An in vitro inoculation test showed that H. oryzae may contribute towards improving rice (Oryza sativa L.) growth. Microscopic inspection of roots and phylogenetic placement of isolates further confirmed that H. oryzae represents a novel member of DSEs.
20402787	The taxonomic status of a nitrogen-fixing bacterium, strain MSSRF38(T), isolated from the rhizosphere of mangrove-associated wild rice (Porteresia coarctata Tateoka), in Pichavaram, India, was studied using a polyphasic approach. Phylogenetic analyses based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that the novel strain MSSRF38(T) was most closely related to Vibrio ruber DSM 16370(T) (98.3% gene sequence similarity), Vibrio rhizosphaerae DSM 18581(T) (98.2% sequence similarity) and <96% to the remaining Vibrio species. Multilocus sequence analysis using ftsZ, gapA, gyrB and mreB genes showed low levels of gene sequence similarities (82-90%) with all species of the genus Vibrio with validly published names, indicating that strain MSSRF38(T) occupies a distinct phylogenetic position. DNA-DNA hybridization experiments showed that strain MSSRF38(T) had <70% DNA-DNA similarity to its closest neighbours V. ruber DSM 16370(T) (27.4%) and V. rhizosphaerae DSM 18581(T) (12.1%). Strain MSSRF38(T) could be differentiated from its relatives on the basis of several phenotypic characteristics. The major fatty acids were feature 3 (including C(16:1omega)7c and/or C(15:0) iso 2-OH), C16:0, C(18:1omega)7c, C(14:0) and C(12:0). The DNA G+C content was 45.4 mol%. Based on genotypic, phenotypic, chemotaxonomic and DNA-DNA analyses, the name Vibrio mangrovi sp. nov. (type strain MSSRF38(T)=LMG 24290(T)=DSM 19641(T)) is proposed for this novel taxon.
20404515	Rice blast, caused by Magnaporthe oryzae, is a devastating disease of rice (Oryza sativa). The mechanisms involved in resistance of rice to blast have been studied extensively and the rice--M. oryzae pathosystem has become a model for plant--microbe interaction studies. However, the mechanisms involved in nonhost resistance (NHR) of other plants to rice blast are still poorly understood. We have recently demonstrated that AGB1 and PMR5 contribute to PEN2-mediated preinvasion resistance to M. oryzae in Arabidopsis thaliana, suggesting a complex genetic network regulating the resistance. To determine whether other defense factors: RAR1, SGT1, and NHO1, affected the A. thaliana-M. oryzae interactions, double mutants were generated between pen2 and these defense-related mutants. All these double mutants exhibited a level of penetration resistance similar to that of the pen2 mutant, suggesting that none of these mutants significantly compromised resistance to M. oryzae in a pen2 background.
2040535	The relationship between frequencies of consumption of selected indicator foods and the risk of thyroid cancer was investigated in a pooled analysis of 4 case-control studies conducted in 3 areas of northern Italy and the Swiss Canton of Vaud, on a total of 385 histologically confirmed cases of thyroid cancer and 798 controls in hospital for acute, non-neoplastic, non-hormone-related diseases. Cases tended to consume significantly more frequently a number of starchy foods: the odds ratio (OR) for the highest vs. lowest tertile was 1.8 for pasta or rice, 2.1 for bread, 1.6 for pastry and 2.0 for potatoes. ORs also tended to be above unity for several types of meat and significantly so for chicken and poultry, cooked ham, salami and sausages. Raw ham and fish were significantly protective (OR = 0.7 in the highest tertile for both). Significant direct associations were observed with cheese (OR = 1.4 for the highest tertile), butter (OR = 2.1) and oils other than olive (OR = 1.6). The risk estimates were below unity for most types of vegetables and fruits, and the inverse trends were significantly for carrots (OR = 0.6 for the highest tertile), green salad (OR = 0.6) and citrus fruits (OR = 0.7). No association was observed with alcohol intake. These results were consistent and reproducible across various study centers.
20406578	The seasonality of malaria transmission was investigated in two villages in central Côte d'Ivoire: one usually with irrigated rice farming (Zatta) and one without (Tiémélékro). Adult mosquitoes were collected, from February 2002 to August 2005, inside and outside sentinel houses. In Tiémélékro, the biting rate of Anopheles gambiae s.s. showed a significant difference between the dry and rainy season only in 2003 (P<0.001). The corresponding rates for An. funestus s.s. showed significant seasonal differences in both 2002 and 2003 (P<0.001 for each year). In Zatta in 2003-2004, when irrigated rice farming was interrupted, there was no significant difference between the An. gambiae s.s. biting rates recorded in the dry and rainy seasons. In both 2002 and 2005, however, when irrigated rice farming was practised, the An. gambiae s.s. biting rate recorded in Zatta during the rainy season was significantly higher than that seen in the dry season (P<0.001 for each year). With just one exception (in Tiémélékro in 2005, the prevalence of Plasmodium infection in the An. funestus was significantly higher in the rainy season than in the dry season), no significant seasonal differences were seen in the prevalences of Plasmodium infection among the An. gambiae or An. funestus. In conclusion, although malaria transmission is quite stable in central Côte d'Ivoire throughout the year, it can be distinctly modified by irrigated rice farming.
20406646	Granule Bound Starch Synthase I (GBSSI), which influences the grain quality of cereals and, particularly, rice, is one of the most important plant genes. Using GBSSI as a model plant gene in this study, we examined a number of different computational algorithm tools and programs to explore the functional SNPs of this important rice gene and the possible relationships between genetic mutation and phenotypic variation. A total of 51 SNPs/indels were retrieved from databases, including three important coding non-synonymous SNPs, namely those in exons 6, 9 and 10. Sorting Intolerant from Tolerant (SIFT) results showed that a candidate [C/A] SNP (ID: OryzaSNP2) in exon 6 (coordinate 2494) is the most important non-synonymous SNP with the highest phenotypic impact on waxy protein. This SNP can alter a tyrosine to serine residue at position 224 of waxy protein. Computational simulation of GBSSI protein with the Geno3D suggested that this mutant SNP creates a bigger loop on the surface of waxy protein and results in a shape different from that of native GBSSI. Here, we suggest a potential transcriptional binding factor site (TBF8) which has one [C/T] SNP [rs53176842] at coordinate 2777 in boundary site of intron 7/exon 8, according to Transcriptional Factor (TF) search analysis. This SNP might potentially have a major effect on regulation and function of GBSSI. Combining SNP mining data and in silico structural analysis of waxy protein led us to prepare an efficient computational pathway which can be applied for other plant genes.
20408349
20408571	Burkholderia glumae, the causal agent of bacterial rice grain rot, utilizes quorum sensing (QS) systems that rely on N-octanoyl homoserine lactone (synthesized by TofI) and its cognate receptor TofR to activate toxoflavin biosynthesis genes and an IclR-type transcriptional regulator gene, qsmR. Since QS is essential for B. glumae pathogenicity, we analyzed the QS-dependent proteome by 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. A total of 79 proteins, including previously known QS-dependent proteins, were differentially expressed between the wild-type BGR1 and the tofI mutant BGS2 strains. Among this set, 59 proteins were found in the extracellular fraction, and 20 were cytoplasmic. Thirty-four proteins, including lipase and proteases, were secreted through the type II secretion system (T2SS). Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that the corresponding genes of the 49 extracellular and 13 intracellular proteins are regulated by QS at the transcriptional level. The T2SS, encoded by 12 general secretion pathway (gsp) genes with 3 independent transcriptional units, was controlled by QS. beta-Glucuronidase activity analysis of gsp::Tn3-gusA gene fusions and electrophoretic mobility shift assays revealed that the expression of gsp genes is directly regulated by QsmR. T2SS-defective mutants exhibited reduced virulence, indicating that the T2SS-dependent extracellular proteins play important roles in B. glumae virulence.
20408681	Lactoferrin (LF) produced from recombinant technologies can achieve almost identical amino acid sequences and three-dimensional structures to those extracted from mammals, but differences often arise in the carbohydrate chains attached through N-glycosylation, with altered sizes, structures, and chemical nature. We compare the differences in solvation and interfacial adsorption from two samples, human milk lactoferrin (hLF) and recombinant rice lactoferrin (rLF). Lactoferrin is a bilobal protein with a molecular weight of about 80 kD. It has three N-glycosylation sites. Each of the three attached glycan chains on rLF contains seven to eight sugar groups. In comparison, each of the three glycan chains attached to hLF contains 12-13 sugar groups and is twice as long. The rLF meting point in 1 mg/ml aqueous solution (pH 7 phosphate buffer, I=20 mM) was 43 degrees C from dynamic light scattering, compared to 53 degrees C for hLF, exhibiting the enhanced solvation and stability of hLF due to its longer carbohydrate side chains. Silicon oxide surfaces provided a model substrate for assessment of lactoferrin adsorption and comparison with other proteins. The time dependent interfacial adsorption studied by spectroscopic ellipsometry (SE) was characterized by a fast initial step followed by a slow relaxation process. In addition, the SE results revealed the persistently higher adsorption of rLF, again showing the effect of glycan side chains. In spite of the different adsorbed amounts, neutron reflection revealed similar interfacial structures of the adsorbed protein layers. At the low lactoferrin concentration around 10 mg/l, a flat-on molecular monolayer formed with both LF lobes attached to the SiO(2) surface through electrostatic attraction. As the protein concentration increased, a secondary molecular layer further adsorbed to the first one and the attachment was again driven by electrostatic attraction. The intermixing between the globular lobes resulted in the dense packing in the middle 60 A with some of the lobes projected toward the aqueous bulk solution.
20408988	Rice transcription factor RF2a binds to the BoxII cis element of the promoter of rice tungro bacilliform virus and activates promoter expression. The acidic acid-rich domain of RF2a is a transcription activator and has been partially characterized (Dai et al., 2003). The RF2a acidic domain (A; amino acids 49-116) was fused with the synthetic zinc finger ZF-TF 2C7 and was co-introduced with a reporter gene into transgenic Arabidopsis plants. Expression of the reporter gene was increased up to seven times by the effector. In transient assays in tobacco BY-2 protoplasts, we identified a subdomain comprising amino acids 56-84 (A5) that was equally as effective as an activator as the entire acidic domain. A chemically inducible system was used to show determined that A and A5 domains are equally as effective in transcription activation as the well-characterized VP16 activation domain. Bioinformatics analyses revealed that the A5 domain is present only in b-ZIP transcription factors. In dicots, the A domain contains an insertion of four amino acids that is not present in monocot proteins. The A5 domain, and similar domains in other b-ZIP transcription factors, is predicted to form an anti-parallel beta sheet structure.
20409004	Plants recognize environmental factors to determine flowering time. CONSTANS (CO) plays a central role in the photoperiod flowering pathway of Arabidopsis, and CO protein stability is modulated by photoreceptors. In rice, Hd1, an ortholog of CO, acts as a flowering promoter, and phytochromes repress Hd1 expression. Here, we investigated the functioning of OsCOL4, a member of the CONSTANS-like (COL) family in rice. OsCOL4 null mutants flowered early under short or long days. In contrast, OsCOL4 activation-tagging mutants (OsCOL4-D) flowered late in either environment. Transcripts of Ehd1, Hd3a, and RFT1 were increased in the oscol4 mutants, but reduced in the OsCOL4-D mutants. This finding indicates that OsCOL4 is a constitutive repressor functioning upstream of Ehd1. By comparison, levels of Hd1, OsID1, OsMADS50, OsMADS51, and OsMADS56 transcripts were not significantly changed in oscol4 or OsCOL4-D, suggesting that OsCOL4 functions independently from previously reported flowering pathways. In osphyB mutants, OsCOL4 expression was decreased and osphyB oscol4 double mutants flowered at the same time as the osphyB single mutants, indicating OsCOL4 functions downstream of OsphyB. We also present evidence for two independent pathways through which OsPhyB controls flowering time. These pathways are: (i) night break-sensitive, which does not need OsCOL4; and (ii) night break-insensitive, in which OsCOL4 functions between OsphyB and Ehd1.
20409329	Genotype analysis using multiple single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) is a useful but labor-intensive or high-cost procedure in plant research. Here we describe an alternative genotyping method that is suited to multi-sample or multi-locus SNP genotyping and does not require electrophoresis or specialized equipment. We have developed a simple method for multi-sample or multi-locus SNP genotyping using allele-specific primers (ASP). More specifically, we (1) improved the design of allele-specific primers, (2) established a method to detect PCR products optically without electrophoresis, and (3) standardized PCR conditions for parallel genomic assay using various allele-specific primers. As an illustration of multi-sample SNP genotyping using ASP, we mapped the locus for lodging resistance in a typhoon (lrt5). Additionally, we successfully tested multi-locus ASP-PCR analysis using 96 SNPs located throughout the genomes of rice (Oryza sativa) cultivars 'Koshihikari' and 'Kasalath', and demonstrated its applicability to other diverse cultivars/subspecies, including wild rice (O. rufipogon). Our ASP methodology allows characterization of SNPs genotypes without electrophoresis, expensive probes or specialized equipment, and is highly versatile due to the flexibility in the design of primers. The method could be established easily in any molecular biology laboratory, and is applicable to diverse organisms.
20409725	Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are one of the well studied signaling networks in plants. In this study a full length cDNA from Arachis hypogaea (peanut) encoding a mitogen-activated protein kinase was cloned using RACE-PCR approach. The cDNA was designated as AhMPK6 based on its high identity with AtMPK6 of Arabidopsis. The AhMPK6 encodes a 397 amino acid polypeptide that shows high similarity with MsSIMK, NtSIPK, OsSIPK of Medicago, tobacco and rice respectively. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that AhMPK6 belongs to the A2 subgroup of MAPK family. When expressed as a translational fusion with GFP, AhMPK6 displayed predominant nuclear localization. The conditional overexpression of AhMPK6 resulted in hypersensitive response (HR)-like cell death in tobacco, with a simultaneous upregulation of HR-marker gene transcripts and various defense response gene transcripts. The AhMPK6 induced gene expression suggests an overlapping or partially redundant function with previously reported AhMPK3.
20409731	The yields of post-source decay (PSD) and time-resolved photodissociation (PD) at 193 and 266 nm were measured for singly protonated leucine enkephalin ([YGGFL + H](+)), a benchmark in the study of peptide ion dissociation, by using tandem time-of-flight mass spectrometry. The peptide ion was generated by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) using 2,5-dihydroxybenzoic acid as the matrix. The critical energy (E(0)) and entropy (DeltaS(++) at 1000 K) for the dissociation were determined by Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus fit of the experimental data. MALDI was done for a mixture of YGGFL and Y(6) and the plume temperature determined by the kinetic analysis of [Y(6) + H](+) data were used to improve the precision of E(0) and DeltaS(++) for [YGGFL + H](+). E(0) and DeltaS(++) thus determined (E(0) = 0.67 +/- 0.08 eV, DeltaS(++) = -24.4 +/- 3.2 eu with 1 eu = 4.184 J K(-1)mol(-1)) were significantly different from those determined by blackbody infrared radiative dissociation (BIRD) (E(0) = 1.10 eV, DeltaS(++) = -14.9 eu), and by surface-induced dissociation (SID) (E(0) = 1.13 eV, DeltaS(double dagger) = -10.3 eu). Analysis of the present experimental data with the SID kinetics (and BIRD kinetics also) led to an unrealistic situation where not only PSD and PD but also MALDI-TOF signals could not be detected. As an explanation for the discrepancy, it was suggested that transition-state switching occurs from an energy bottleneck (SID/BIRD) to an entropy bottleneck (PSD/PD) as the internal energy increases.
20410374	This study assessed the effects of clinician-assisted emotional disclosure (CAED), an integration of emotion focused therapy (Greenberg, Rice, & Elliott, 1993) and emotional disclosure, in ameliorating distress experienced by survivors of sexual assault. A total of 670 female university students were screened for both histories of sexual victimization and clinically significant levels of global psychological distress. Twenty-eight females entered the treatment phase of the study and were randomly assigned to participate in either treatment or no-treatment control conditions. Participants completed a battery of instruments at each evaluation to assess interpersonal, global, and traumatic stress symptoms. At termination and 1-month follow-up, there were no significant differences between CAED and control group on any of the outcome variables. However, there were several differences between the CAED treatment and control groups at 3 month posttreatment. Specifically, individuals in the CAED group reported significant reductions in interpersonal distress, namely, hostility and dependency and reductions in avoidance symptoms associated with posttraumatic stress disorder. These findings are useful for the development of emotion-focused therapies and, specifically, toward psychotherapy integration strategies that combine imaginal exposure with experiential techniques for emotional processing of previously avoided experience.
20411243	Dioctyldiethylenetriamine acetate (Chinese common name: Xinjunan) is an effective bactericide and virucide widely used on many crops including vegetables and fruits in China. In this study, the dissipation of dioctyldiethylenetriamine acetate 1.8% (w/w) aqueous solution (AS) in rice, soil and water was studied. The result in the supervised field trials showed that the half-lives of dioctyldiethylenetriamine acetate in soil and rice plant were in the range 3.9-6.6 and 6.2-12 days, respectively. It also indicated that the decline followed first-order kinetics. The dissipation of Xinjunan in water, was stimulated in a laboratory container, showed that it could rapidly deposit on solid particles and might form bound residues in surface levels of soil. According to the toxicological data and the dietary intake of rice, a MRL (Maximum Residue Limits) of 0.1 mg/kg for dioctyldiethylenetriamine acetate in the rice was recommended for national accessment. The results indicated that the supervised trials median residues (STMR) is 0.02 mg/kg and only 0.2% of the acceptable daily intake (ADI) is occupied by dietary daily intake in the average Chinese population. It would be unlikely to pose any public health issues if dioctyldiethylenetriamine acetate was applied according to the use pattern suggested by the manufactures on the label.
20413168	Cauim is a fermented beverages prepared by Tapirapé Amerindians in Brazil from substrates such as cassava, rice, peanuts, pumpkin, cotton seed and maize. Here we study the microorganisms associated with peanut and rice fermentation using a combination of culture-dependent and -independent methods. The bacterial population varied from 7.4 to 8.4 log CFU/ml. The yeast population varied from 4.0 to 6.6 log CFU/ml. A total of 297 bacteria and yeasts strains were isolated during fermentation, with 198 bacteria and 99 yeast. The Lactobacillus genus was dominant throughout fermentation. Bacteria and yeast community dynamics during the fermentation process were monitored by PCR-DGGE analysis. Both culture-dependent and -independent methods indicated that the bacterial species L. plantarum, L. fermentum, L. paracasei and L. brevis as well as the yeast species P. guilliermondii, K. lactis, Candida sp, R. toruloides and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, were dominant during fermentation. Multivariate analysis of microorganisms during beverage fermentation showed that the microbial community changed during the fermentation process.
20414639	Using sewage sludge, a biological residue from sewage treatment processes, in agriculture is an alternative disposal technique of waste. To study the biochemical and physiological responses of Rice (Oryza sativa L.) grown on different sewage sludge amendments (SSA) rates a field experiment was conducted by mixing sewage sludge at 0, 3, 4.5, 6, 9, 12 kg m(-2) rate to the agricultural soil. Rate of photosynthesis and stomatal conductance increased in plants grown at different SSA rate. Chlorophyll and protein contents also increased due to different SSA rates. Lipid peroxidation, ascorbic acid, peroxidase activity and proline content increased, however, thiol and phenol content decreased in plants grown at different SSA rates. The study concludes that for rice plant sewage sludge amendment in soil may be a good option as plant has adequate heavy metal tolerance mechanism showed by increased rate of photosynthesis and chlorophyll content and various antioxidant levels.
20416079	Various evolutionary models have been proposed to interpret the fate of paralogous duplicates, which provides substrates on which evolution selection could act. In particular, domestication, as a special selection, has played important role in crop cultivation with divergence of many genes controlling important agronomic traits. Recent studies have indicated that a pair of duplicate genes was often sub-functionalized from their ancestral functions held by the parental genes. We previously demonstrated that the rice cell-wall invertase (CWI) gene GIF1 that plays an important role in the grain-filling process was most likely subjected to domestication selection in the promoter region. Here, we report that GIF1 and another CWI gene OsCIN1 constitute a pair of duplicate genes with differentiated expression and function through independent selection. Through synteny analysis, we show that GIF1 and another cell-wall invertase gene OsCIN1 were paralogues derived from a segmental duplication originated during genome duplication of grasses. Results based on analyses of population genetics and gene phylogenetic tree of 25 cultivars and 25 wild rice sequences demonstrated that OsCIN1 was also artificially selected during rice domestication with a fixed mutation in the coding region, in contrast to GIF1 that was selected in the promoter region. GIF1 and OsCIN1 have evolved into different expression patterns and probable different kinetics parameters of enzymatic activity with the latter displaying less enzymatic activity. Overexpression of GIF1 and OsCIN1 also resulted in different phenotypes, suggesting that OsCIN1 might regulate other unrecognized biological process. How gene duplication and divergence contribute to genetic novelty and morphological adaptation has been an interesting issue to geneticists and biologists. Our discovery that the duplicated pair of GIF1 and OsCIN1 has experienced sub-functionalization implies that selection could act independently on each duplicate towards different functional specificity, which provides a vivid example for evolution of genetic novelties in a model crop. Our results also further support the established hypothesis that gene duplication with sub-functionalization could be one solution for genetic adaptive conflict.
20416623	We hypothesized that dietary roughage level would alter the expression levels of adipogenic transcription factors in adipose tissue of Japanese black (Wagyu) steers. Steers were fed whole crop rice silage at three levels: (1) high-roughage feeding group, fed 8kg silage and 5kg concentrate (HR); (2) middle roughage feeding group, fed 5kg silage and 6kg concentrate (MR); and (3) low roughage feeding group, fed 2kg silage and 7kg concentrate (LR) from 22 to 30months of age. In subcutaneous adipose tissue, there were no significant differences in the expression of the adipogenic transcription factors and adipocyte size among feeding groups. In mesenteric adipose tissue, the expression of C/EBPα in the LR and MR groups was significantly higher than that in the HR group. Adipocyte size in the mesenteric adipose tissue of the LR group was significantly larger than that of the HR group. In intermuscular adipose tissue, the expression of C/EBPβ-LAP in the LR group was significantly higher than that in the HR group, and the expression of C/EBPβ-LIP in the LR and MR groups was significantly higher than that in the HR group. Adipocyte size in the intermuscular adipose tissue of the LR and MR groups was significantly smaller than that of the HR group. These results suggest that dietary roughage revel affects the adipose tissue depot-specific differences in C/EBP family expression pattern and adipocyte cellularity in Wagyu steers.
20416740	The effects of vegetable oils prepared from olive, corn, soybean, canola, or grape seed, and rice bran fiber on the composition and rheological properties of meat batters were studied. Pork fat at 30% in the control was partially replaced by one of the vegetable oils at 10% in addition to reducing the pork fat to 10%. The chemical composition, cooking characteristics, texture properties, and viscosity of low-fat meat batters were analyzed. The moisture, protein, ash content, uncooked and cooked pH values, b(∗)-value, hardness, cohesiveness, gumminess, chewiness, and viscosity of meat batters with vegetable oil and rice bran fiber were all higher than the control. In addition, batters supplemented with vegetable oil and rice bran fiber had lower cooking loss and better emulsion stability. Low-fat meat batters with reduced pork fat content (10%) and 10% vegetable oil plus rice bran fiber had improved characteristics relative to the regular fat control.
20417094	The aim of this research was to evaluate the nutritional characteristics of Aphanothece microscopica Nägeli microalgae developed in the effluent of parboiled rice. The biomass was biologically evaluated by rat growth, during 10 days for nitrogen balance studies and 28 days for blood analysis. The feeding of Aphanothece biomass diets resulted in a nitrogen balance of 1.42 g/rat/day, an apparent biological value of 73.33%, an apparent digestibility of 82.12%, an apparent net protein utilization of 60.21% and a net protein retention of 2.40. Significant differences between the glycemic indices of rats fed with the Aphanothece and those fed with the control diet were not observed. However, the total cholesterol levels in the plasma of rats fed the test diet proved to be significantly lower. These results suggest the use of A. microscopica Nägeli developed in parboiled rice effluent as a potential source of single-cell protein.
20417985	To investigate how high light affects the responses of photosynthesis to heat stress, the effects of high temperature (25-42.5 degrees C) either in the dark or in the light (1000 micromol m(-2) s(-1)) on photosystem II (PSII) photochemistry and the xanthophyll cycle were investigated in rice plants. At temperatures higher than 35 degrees C, there was a decrease in the CO(2) assimilation rate, and this decrease was greater in the light than in the dark. The maximal efficiency of PSII photochemistry (F(v)/F(m)) showed no significant change in the dark, but did show a significant decrease in the light. In addition, there was an increase in non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) and this increase was greater in the light than in the dark. Furthermore, the de-epoxidation status of the xanthophyll cycle increased significantly with increasing temperature in the light. Compared to the control leaves, the dithiothreitol-fed leaves showed a greater decrease in F(v)/F(m) but a very small increase in NPQ and de-epoxidation status of the xanthophyll cycle at temperatures higher than 35 degrees C. On the other hand, the ascorbate-fed leaves showed less of a decrease in F(v)/F(m) but a greater increase in NPQ and the de-epoxidation status of the xanthophyll cycle. Ascorbate peroxidase and glutathione reductase activities in leaves and chloroplasts were enhanced and this enhancement was greater in the light than in the dark. Heat stress had no significant effect on the contents of ascorbate and glutathione in leaves and chloroplasts in the dark, but led to an increase in the contents of reduced ascorbate and glutathione in leaves and chloroplasts in the light at the temperatures higher than 35 degrees C. Our results suggest that the xanthophyll cycle plays an important role in protecting PSII against heat-induced photoinhibition by an increase in the ascorbate pool in the chloroplast.
20418407	The novel strain GMKU 370(T) was isolated from roots of a Thai jasmine rice plant (Oryza sativa L. 'KDML 105') collected from Pathum Thani Rice Research Center, Pathum Thani province, Thailand. A phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences indicated that strain GMKU 370(T) formed a distinct clade within the genus Actinoallomurus. Strain GMKU 370(T) contained meso-diaminopimelic acid and lysine in the cell-wall peptidoglycan and galactose and madurose as whole-cell sugars. No mycolic acids were detected. The predominant menaquinones were MK-9(H(6)) and MK-9(H(8)). The polar phospholipids consisted of phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidylinositol. These chemical properties reveal that strain GMKU 370(T) belongs to the genus Actinoallomurus. Strain GMKU 370(T) is distinct from the phylogenetically closely related type strains Actinoallomurus iriomotensis NBRC 103685(T) and Actinoallomurus coprocola NBRC 103688(T) (99.20 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity to both) in terms of differences in phenotypic characteristics and DNA-DNA relatedness (51 and 17 %, respectively). It is proposed that strain GMKU 370(T) represents a novel species of the genus Actinoallomurus, for which the name Actinoallomurus oryzae sp. nov. is proposed. The type strain is GMKU 370(T) (= BCC 31373(T) = NBRC 105246(T)).
20418547
20418637	Groundwater is the major source of drinking water in Lamphun Province in the Chiang Mai Basin, Thailand. However, groundwater contains high fluoride up to 16 mg F/L, which has caused dental and skeletal fluorosis. Although Thai Government installed RO membrane plants for the removal of fluoride from groundwater; and delivers RO-filtered bottled water that contains less fluoride than the Thai Standard of 0.7 mg F/L, it was found that the urinary fluoride levels are still high among the residents. To find the major sources of fluoride intake, fluoride contents in various water sources, such as village water supply, shallow and deep groundwaters, rain water and bottled water, were measured, and the local people's behavior on water uses was recorded by interview and questionnaire study. As a result, it was found that the highest risk of fluoride ingestion comes from cooking rice with fluoride-containing water because of a lack of knowledge on fluoride sources and fluoride chemistry. To reduce the health risks arising from fluoride intake, a hands-on educational program on the sources and risks of fluoride in water was developed and implemented in the local schools. The participatory educational program promoted active involvement of schoolchildren, but it was found that the effectiveness of education varied depending on the questions we asked. Therefore, it needs to be improved by an iterative and interactive educational program. In conclusion, it was found that the benefits of providing safe drinking water using such advanced technology as RO membrane can be maximized only when it comes along with a participatory educational program on fluoride sources and health risks.
20419097	Brachypodium distachyon (Brachypodium) is a model for the temperate grasses which include important cereals such as barley, wheat and oats. Comparison of the Brachypodium genome (accession Bd21) with those of the model dicot Arabidopsis thaliana and the tropical cereal rice (Oryza sativa) provides an opportunity to compare and contrast genetic pathways controlling important traits. We analysed the homologies of genes controlling the induction of flowering using pathways curated in Arabidopsis Reactome as a starting point. Pathways include those detecting and responding to the environmental cues of day length (photoperiod) and extended periods of low temperature (vernalization). Variation in these responses has been selected during cereal domestication, providing an interesting comparison with the wild genome of Brachypodium. Brachypodium Bd21 has well conserved homologues of circadian clock, photoperiod pathway and autonomous pathway genes defined in Arabidopsis and homologues of vernalization pathway genes defined in cereals with the exception of VRN2 which was absent. Bd21 also lacked a member of the CO family (CO3). In both cases flanking genes were conserved showing that these genes are deleted in at least this accession. Segmental duplication explains the presence of two CO-like genes in temperate cereals, of which one (Hd1) is retained in rice, and explains many differences in gene family structure between grasses and Arabidopsis. The conserved fine structure of duplications shows that they largely evolved to their present structure before the divergence of the rice and Brachypodium. Of four flowering-time genes found in rice but absent in Arabidopsis, two were found in Bd21 (Id1, OsMADS51) and two were absent (Ghd7, Ehd1). Overall, results suggest that an ancient core photoperiod pathway promoting flowering via the induction of FT has been modified by the recruitment of additional lineage specific pathways that promote or repress FT expression.
20419136	Polished rice is a staple food for over 50% of the world's population, but contains little bioavailable iron (Fe) to meet human needs. Thus, biofortifying the rice grain with novel promoters or enhancers of Fe utilization would be one of the most effective strategies to prevent the high prevalence of Fe deficiency and iron deficiency anemia in the developing world. We transformed an elite rice line cultivated in Southern China with the rice nicotianamine synthase gene (OsNAS1) fused to a rice glutelin promoter. Endosperm overexpression of OsNAS1 resulted in a significant increase in nicotianamine (NA) concentrations in both unpolished and polished grain. Bioavailability of Fe from the high NA grain, as measured by ferritin synthesis in an in vitro Caco-2 cell model that simulates the human digestive system, was twice as much as that of the control line. When added at 1:1 molar ratio to ferrous Fe in the cell system, NA was twice as effective when compared to ascorbic acid (one of the most potent known enhancers of Fe bioavailability) in promoting more ferritin synthesis. Our data demonstrated that NA is a novel and effective promoter of iron utilization. Biofortifying polished rice with this compound has great potential in combating global human iron deficiency in people dependent on rice for their sustenance.
20419461	To identify biochemical markers for salt tolerance, two contrasting cultivars of rice (Oryza sativa L.) differing in salt tolerance were analyzed for various parameters. Pokkali, a salt-tolerant cultivar, showed considerably lower level of H(2)O(2) as compared to IR64, a sensitive cultivar, and such a physiology may be ascribed to the higher activity of enzymes in Pokkali, which either directly or indirectly are involved in the detoxification of H(2)O(2). Enzyme activities and the isoenzyme pattern of antioxidant enzymes also showed higher activity of different types and forms in Pokkali as compared to IR64, suggesting that Pokkali possesses a more efficient antioxidant defense system to cope up with salt-induced oxidative stress. Further, Pokkali exhibited a higher GSH/GSSG ratio along with a higher ratio of reduced ascorbate/oxidized ascorbate as compared to IR64 under NaCl stress. In addition, the activity of methylglyoxal detoxification system (glyoxalase I and II) was significantly higher in Pokkali as compared to IR64. As reduced glutathione is involved in the ascorbate-glutathione pathway as well as in the methylglyoxal detoxification pathway, it may be a point of interaction between these two. Our results suggest that both ascorbate and glutathione homeostasis, modulated also via glyoxalase enzymes, can be considered as biomarkers for salt tolerance in Pokkali rice. In addition, status of reactive oxygen species and oxidative DNA damage can serve as a quick and sensitive biomarker for screening against salt and other abiotic stresses in crop plants.
20419467	Zinc is essential for normal plant growth and development. To understand its transport in rice, we characterized OsZIP5, which is inducible under Zn deficiency. OsZIP5 complemented the growth defect of a yeast Zn-uptake mutant, indicating that OsZIP5 is a Zn transporter. The OsZIP5-GFP fusion protein was localized to the plasma membrane. Transgenic plants overexpressing the gene grew less well. Overexpression of the gene decreased the Zn concentration in shoots, but caused it to rise in the roots. Knockout plants showed no visible phenotypic changes under either normal or deficient conditions. However, they were tolerant to excess Zn and contained less Zn. In contrast, overexpressing transgenics were sensitive to excess Zn. These results indicate that OsZIP5 plays a role in Zn distribution within rice.
20420468	It has recently been demonstrated that graphene nanoribbons can be mass-produced by unzipping carbon nanotubes. At present, wet chemical routes via acid oxidation appear to be the most effective and scalable. Although it was believed that this route resulted in highly defective nanoribbons with low electrical transport properties, a research group led by James Tour at Rice University has now realized that it is indeed possible to obtain highly crystalline graphene nanoribbons exhibiting high electrical conductivities, which could be used in the fabrication of field effect transistors and other devices. The results indicate that a defect-engineering approach could be used to control the straightness and length of the ribbons using oxidation reactions at relatively high temperatures (e.g., 60 degrees C). It has been shown that defects are critical in tailoring the physicochemical properties of graphene-like nanomaterials such as nanoribbons. However, this is the tip of the iceberg, and more edge chemistry and physics is still needed to develop and to produce real graphene nanoribbon devices for use in the market.
20420750	Traditional analysis of food intake usually fails to show an association between energy and nutrient intake and indicators of obesity. The analysis of food patterns can contribute to the understanding of the association between eating habits and anthropometric indicators. A population-based cross-sectional study was carried out on a low-income neighbourhood in the Rio de Janeiro metropolitan area, and 1009 subjects between 20 and 65 years of age completed an FFQ. Dietary patterns were identified by means of factor analysis, and their associations with BMI and waist circumference (WC) were ascertained by applying a linear regression analysis. Three main dietary patterns were identified: a mixed pattern, which included cereals, fish and shrimp, vegetables, roots, fruits, eggs, meat and caffeinated beverages; a Western pattern, which consisted of 'fast foods', soft drinks, juices, cakes, cookies, milk and dairy, sweets and snacks; a traditional pattern, which included rice, beans, bread, sugar, fats and salad dressings. After adjusting for age and energy intake, we found that the traditional dietary pattern was inversely associated with BMI (beta = - 1.14, P < 0.001) and WC (beta = - 14.9, P = 0.002) among females. Additionally, a positive association between the Western pattern and WC (beta = 12.8, P = 0.02) was observed for females. A diet based on rice and beans may have a protective role against weight gain in women.
20420755	Previous studies on the relationship of local food environment with residents' diets have relied exclusively on self-reported information on diet, producing inconsistent results. Evaluation of dietary intake using biomarkers may obviate the biases inherent to the use of self-reported dietary information. This cross-sectional study examined the association between neighbourhood food store availability and 24 h urinary Na and K excretion. The subjects were 904 female Japanese dietetic students aged 18-22 years. Neighbourhood food store availability was defined as the number of food stores within a 0.5-mile (0.8-km) radius of residence. Urinary Na and K excretion and the ratio of urinary Na to K were estimated from a single 24 h urine sample. After adjustment for potential confounding factors, neighbourhood availability of confectionery stores/bakeries was inversely associated with urinary K, and was positively associated with the ratio of Na to K (P for trend = 0.008 and 0.03, respectively). Neighbourhood availability of rice stores showed an independent inverse association with urinary K (P for trend = 0.03), whereas neighbourhood availability of supermarkets/grocery stores conversely showed an independent positive association with this variable (P for trend = 0.03). Furthermore, neighbourhood availability of fruit/vegetable stores showed an independent inverse association with the ratio of Na to K (P for trend = 0.049). In a group of young Japanese women, increasing neighbourhood availability of supermarkets/grocery stores and fruit/vegetable stores and decreasing availability of confectionery stores/bakeries and rice stores were associated with favourable profiles of 24 h urinary K (and Na) excretion.
20420885	The initial sign of cadmium (Cd)-induced renal effects is tubular damage, followed by glomerular damage. For the prevention of Cd-induced renal effects, it is essential to establish the reference exposure below which the risk of adverse health effects is low. In earlier Japanese studies, the estimated reference exposure of creatinine (cre)-adjusted urinary cadmium for renal tubular effect ranged from 1.6 to 4.0 microg/g cre in men and 2.3 to 4.6 microg/g cre in women. The benchmark dose (BMD) is defined as the exposure that corresponds to a certain response change from the background. The lower 95% confidence limit of the BMD (BMDL) can be used in risk assessment as a replacement for the no observed adverse effect level. This is a review of all relevant BMDL of Cd exposure for renal effects estimated so far. Based on studies in Japan, the best estimate is considered to be 1.5-3.2 microg/g cre for urinary Cd, 0.09-0.13 mg/kg for rice Cd concentration, and 0.9-1.4 g Cd for lifetime Cd intake. These BMDLs for renal effects were generally lower than the reference exposure expected from earlier studies, indicating the importance of further discussion regarding comprehensive measures to decrease the Cd exposure in the general population.
20421194	Long chain prenyl diphosphates are crucial biosynthetic precursors of ubiquinone (UQ) in many organisms, ranging from bacteria to humans, as well as precursors of plastoquinone in photosynthetic organisms. The cloning and characterization of two solanesyl diphosphate synthase genes, OsSPS1 and OsSPS2, in Oryza sativa is reported here. OsSPS1 was highly expressed in root tissue whereas OsSPS2 was found to be high in both leaves and roots. Enzymatic characterization using recombinant proteins showed that both OsSPS1 and OsSPS2 could produce solanesyl diphosphates as their final product, while OsSPS1 showed stronger activity than OsSPS2. However, an important biological difference was observed between the two genes: OsSPS1 complemented the yeast coq1 disruptant, which does not form UQ, whereas OsSPS2 only very weakly complemented the growth defect of the coq1 mutant. HPLC analyses showed that both OsSPS1 and OsSPS2 yeast transformants produced UQ9 instead of UQ6, which is the native yeast UQ. According to the complementation study, the UQ9 levels in OsSPS2 transformants were much lower than that of OsSPS1. Green fluorescent protein fusion analyses showed that OsSPS1 localized to mitochondria, while OsSPS2 localized to plastids. This suggests that OsSPS1 is involved in the supply of solanesyl diphosphate for ubiquinone-9 biosynthesis in mitochondria, whereas OsSPS2 is involved in providing solanesyl diphosphate for plastoquinone-9 formation. These findings indicate that O. sativa has a different mechanism for the supply of isoprenoid precursors in UQ biosynthesis from Arabidopsis thaliana, in which SPS1 provides a prenyl moiety for UQ9 at the endoplasmic reticulum.
20421195	A major challenge in rice (Oryza sativa L.) production is to enhance water use efficiency (WUE) and maintain or even increase grain yield. WUE, if defined as the biomass accumulation over water consumed, may be fairly constant for a given species in given climate. WUE can be enhanced by less irrigation. However, such enhancement is largely a trade-off against lower biomass production. If WUE is defined as the grain production per unit amount of water irrigated, it would be possible to increase WUE without compromising grain yield through the manipulation of harvest index. Harvest index has been shown to be a variable factor in crop production, and in many situations, it is closely associated with WUE and grain yield in cereals. Taking rice as an example, this paper discussed crop management techniques that can enhance harvest index. Several practices such as post-anthesis controlled soil drying, alternate wetting and moderate soil drying regimes during the whole growing season, and non-flooded straw mulching cultivation, could substantially enhance WUE and maintain or even increase grain yield of rice, mainly via improved canopy structure, source activity, sink strength, and enhanced remobilization of pre-stored carbon reserves from vegetative tissues to grains. All the work has proved that a proper crop management holds great promise to enhance harvest index and, consequently, achieve the dual goal of increasing grain production and saving water.
20421244	Synthesis of zeolites from combustion by-products, including fly ash, bottom ash and rice husk ash, was studied. A molar ratio of SiO2/Al2O3 of 1.5 was used for the syntheses. Refluxing and hydrothermal methods were also used for synthesis for comparison. The reaction temperatures of refluxing and hydrothermal methods were 100 degrees C and 130 degrees C, respectively. Sodalite, phillipsite-K, and zeolite P1 with analcime were obtained when fly ash, bottom ash and rice husk ash were used as starting materials, respectively. With rice husk ash as a starting material, zeolite P1 was produced. This result had advantages over previous studies as there was no prior activation required for the synthesis. The concentrations and types of alkaline used in the synthesis also determined the zeolite type. The different zeolites obtained from three systems were measured for specific surface area and pore size by using BET and Hg-porosimetry, respectively. Ammonium exchange capacities of the synthesised powders containing zeolites, sodalite, zeolite P1 and phillipsite-K were 38.5, 65.0 and 154.7 meq 100 g(-1), respectively.
20421480	Cholera and enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) are among the most common causes of acute infantile gastroenteritis globally. We previously developed a rice-based vaccine that expressed cholera toxin B subunit (MucoRice-CTB) and had the advantages of being cold chain-free and providing protection against cholera toxin (CT)-induced diarrhea. To advance the development of MucoRice-CTB for human clinical application, we investigated whether the CTB-specific secretory IgA (SIgA) induced by MucoRice-CTB gives longstanding protection against diarrhea induced by Vibrio cholerae and heat-labile enterotoxin (LT)-producing ETEC (LT-ETEC) in mice. Oral immunization with MucoRice-CTB stored at room temperature for more than 3 y provided effective SIgA-mediated protection against CT- or LT-induced diarrhea, but the protection was impaired in polymeric Ig receptor-deficient mice lacking SIgA. The vaccine gave longstanding protection against CT- or LT-induced diarrhea (for > or = 6 months after primary immunization), and a single booster immunization extended the duration of protective immunity by at least 4 months. Furthermore, MucoRice-CTB vaccination prevented diarrhea in the event of V. cholerae and LT-ETEC challenges. Thus, MucoRice-CTB is an effective long-term cold chain-free oral vaccine that induces CTB-specific SIgA-mediated longstanding protection against V. cholerae- or LT-ETEC-induced diarrhea.
20423088	Klason lignin or preacid hydrolysate of a poaceous biomass such as rice husk, rice straw (Oryza sativa), and wheat straw (Triticum aestivum) became a good source of highly pure silica by simple calcinations in the testing process for application of high-boiling solvent (HBS) pulping of agricultural byproduct. Especially, Klason lignin or preacid hydrolysis residue of rice husks offered highly purified silica, which was converted to an excellent Ni/SiO(2) catalyst for methanation of carbon dioxide. The Ni/SiO(2) catalyst showed superior properties after the following sequential treatments; preacid hydrolysis of rice husks, HBS pulping of the resultant residue, cellulase hydrolysis of the HBS pulp, calcinations of the resultant powder, impregnation of the silica sample with an aqueous solution of nickel nitrate, and final calcinations.
2042318	The blood sugar level was evaluated in patients with insulin-independent diabetes mellitus and obesity, and in normal volunteers, during 3 h with a 30-min interval before and after food loading containing 50 g of carbohydrates. It has been found that 17 food products studied produce varying effects on the blood glucose level regardless of the content of starch and sugars in them. Pure glucose, boiled rice, potatoe, white bread, boiled bean, pastry, honey and sugar produce the highest glycemic effect. Milk, ice cream, boiled lens and noodles produce a moderate effect on the blood sugar level both in normal subjects and in patients with diabetes mellitus and obesity. The increase of the glucose blood level after intake of food products was significantly higher in patients with diabetes mellitus as compared to those with obesity and normal volunteers. Milk products, lens, macaroni and millet are most promising for patients with diabetes mellitus due to their moderate influence on the blood glucose content.
20423466	To create useful gene combinations in crop breeding, it is necessary to clarify the dynamics of the genome composition created by breeding practices. A large quantity of single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) data is required to permit discrimination of chromosome segments among modern cultivars, which are genetically related. Here, we used a high-throughput sequencer to conduct whole-genome sequencing of an elite Japanese rice cultivar, Koshihikari, which is closely related to Nipponbare, whose genome sequencing has been completed. Then we designed a high-throughput typing array based on the SNP information by comparison of the two sequences. Finally, we applied this array to analyze historical representative rice cultivars to understand the dynamics of their genome composition. The total 5.89-Gb sequence for Koshihikari, equivalent to 15.7 x the entire rice genome, was mapped using the Pseudomolecules 4.0 database for Nipponbare. The resultant Koshihikari genome sequence corresponded to 80.1% of the Nipponbare sequence and led to the identification of 67,051 SNPs. A high-throughput typing array consisting of 1917 SNP sites distributed throughout the genome was designed to genotype 151 representative Japanese cultivars that have been grown during the past 150 years. We could identify the ancestral origin of the pedigree haplotypes in 60.9% of the Koshihikari genome and 18 consensus haplotype blocks which are inherited from traditional landraces to current improved varieties. Moreover, it was predicted that modern breeding practices have generally decreased genetic diversity Detection of genome-wide SNPs by both high-throughput sequencer and typing array made it possible to evaluate genomic composition of genetically related rice varieties. With the aid of their pedigree information, we clarified the dynamics of chromosome recombination during the historical rice breeding process. We also found several genomic regions decreasing genetic diversity which might be caused by a recent human selection in rice breeding. The definition of pedigree haplotypes by means of genome-wide SNPs will facilitate next-generation breeding of rice and other crops.
20423894	The zinc finer proteins consist of a large transcription factor family involved in plant development and responses to environmental stresses. In this paper, a TFA-type zinc finger protein gene ZFP207 (GenBank assession number AK063147.1) was cloned from rice variety Jiucaiqing by RT-PCR approach. This gene contains an open reading frame (ORF) of 567 bp, which encodes a peptide of 188 amino acid residues. The isoelectric point (pI) of the protein is 9.67, and its molecular weight is 20.72 kDa. Bioinformatic analysis showed that the ZFP207 protein comprises a typical TFA-type zinc finger domain and an EAR-motif at its C-terminus. However, nuclear localization signals (NLS) commonly existing in TFA-type zinc finger proteins was not found in the ZFP207 amino acid sequence. In addition, based on the alignments of the whole amino acid sequences of some known TFA-type zinc finger proteins in plants, a phylogenetic tree was con-structed by the neighbour joining method. The phylogenetic tree showed that ZFP207 and other TFA-type zinc finger proteins with single zinc finger domain were grouped into the same branch. The expression pattern of ZFP207 gene was also investigated in various rice tissues at adult stage by RT-PCR and the results showed that ZFP207 was expressed with high levels in culms and leaves, but lower in roots and spikes. Finally, the trans-activation assay in yeast cells revealed that ZFP207 lacked the trans-activation activity.
20423940	Arabinogalactan proteins (AGPs) comprise a family of hydroxyproline-rich glycoproteins that are implicated in plant growth and development. In this study, 69 AGPs are identified from the rice genome, including 13 classical AGPs, 15 arabinogalactan (AG) peptides, three non-classical AGPs, three early nodulin-like AGPs (eNod-like AGPs), eight non-specific lipid transfer protein-like AGPs (nsLTP-like AGPs), and 27 fasciclin-like AGPs (FLAs). The results from expressed sequence tags, microarrays, and massively parallel signature sequencing tags are used to analyse the expression of AGP-encoding genes, which is confirmed by real-time PCR. The results reveal that several rice AGP-encoding genes are predominantly expressed in anthers and display differential expression patterns in response to abscisic acid, gibberellic acid, and abiotic stresses. Based on the results obtained from this analysis, an attempt has been made to link the protein structures and expression patterns of rice AGP-encoding genes to their functions. Taken together, the genome-wide identification and expression analysis of the rice AGP gene family might facilitate further functional studies of rice AGPs.
20424261	The "low-energy checkpoint" SNF1-related protein kinases, which are conserved in all eukaryotes, play an important role in cellular metabolic adaptation to differences in energy and oxygen availability. Although the signaling pathways involved in such metabolic adaptations are well understood in yeast and mammals, they have been poorly understood in plants. A recent study revealed that calcineurin B-like interacting protein kinase 15 (CIPK15) acted as a global regulator of such adaptations, linking the response to O(2) deficiency with the response to carbohydrate starvation in rice (Oryza sativa). Knockout mutants of Nipponbare rice CIPK15 failed to initiate transcription of the glycolytic enzymes alpha-amylase 3 and alcohol dehydrogenase 2, which mediate fermentative metabolism for adenosine triphosphate generation under anaerobic conditions. Targeted manipulation of OsCIPK15 might facilitate rice cultivation and ensure agricultural productivity in regions subject to flooding. Here, we highlight the importance of the energy- and oxygen-sensing pathway indicated by its conservation among different eukaryotic kingdoms.
20425265
20425271	Current guidelines recommend statins as first-line therapy for reducing low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) and preventing cardiovascular events. Patients taking statins frequently experience adverse effects during therapy. The first step is to determine whether the adverse effects are indeed related to statin therapy by statin dechallenge and rechallenge. Strategies for managing statin intolerance include changing statins, intermittent dosing, intensification of lifestyle modifications, and using other LDL-C-lowering agents such as ezetimibe, bile acid sequestrants, and LDL apheresis in suitable patients. More controversial approaches include red yeast rice, coenzyme Q10, and vitamin D supplementation. New therapies for LDL-C lowering are in development.
20426810	Alternative splicing (AS) involving tandem acceptors that are separated by three nucleotides (NAGNAG) is an evolutionarily widespread class of AS, which is well studied in Homo sapiens (human) and Mus musculus (mouse). It has also been shown to be common in the model seed plants Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa (rice). In one of the first studies involving sequence-based prediction of AS in plants, we performed a genome-wide identification and characterization of NAGNAG AS in the model plant Physcomitrella patens, a moss. Using Sanger data, we found 295 alternatively used NAGNAG acceptors in P. patens. Using 31 features and training and test datasets of constitutive and alternative NAGNAGs, we trained a classifier to predict the splicing outcome at NAGNAG tandem splice sites (alternative splicing, constitutive at the first acceptor, or constitutive at the second acceptor). Our classifier achieved a balanced specificity and sensitivity of >or= 89%. Subsequently, a classifier trained exclusively on data well supported by transcript evidence was used to make genome-wide predictions of NAGNAG splicing outcomes. By generation of more transcript evidence from a next-generation sequencing platform (Roche 454), we found additional evidence for NAGNAG AS, with altogether 664 alternative NAGNAGs being detected in P. patens using all currently available transcript evidence. The 454 data also enabled us to validate the predictions of the classifier, with 64% (80/125) of the well-supported cases of AS being predicted correctly. NAGNAG AS is just as common in the moss P. patens as it is in the seed plants A. thaliana and O. sativa (but not conserved on the level of orthologous introns), and can be predicted with high accuracy. The most informative features are the nucleotides in the NAGNAG and in its immediate vicinity, along with the splice sites scores, as found earlier for NAGNAG AS in animals. Our results suggest that the mechanism behind NAGNAG AS in plants is similar to that in animals and is largely dependent on the splice site and its immediate neighborhood.
20427180	Transgenic tobacco plants expressing the hyperthermostable beta-glucosidase BglB of Thermotoga maritima were generated with the goal of cost-effective production of the enzyme for the application in bioconversion of lignocellulosic biomass. The enzyme was targeted to the cytosol and chloroplasts, where it accumulated to level of 4.5% and 5.8% of total soluble protein, respectively. The optimal temperature and pH of the plant-expressed BglB was 80 degrees C and 4.5, respectively. BglB activity was preserved in leaves after lyophilization, but decreased by over 70% with drying at room temperature. When BglB was synergistically supplied in a 1% (w/v) rice straw with Cel5A for efficient cellulase conversion, a 37% increase in glucose was observed. This report demonstrates the potential of utilizing transgenic tobacco for mass production of BglB.
20427415	Male-sterile plants are used in hybrid breeding as well as for gene confinement for genetically modified plants in field trials and agricultural production. Apart from naturally occurring mutations leading to male sterility, biotechnology has added new possibilities for obtaining male-sterile plants, although so far only one system is used in practical breeding due to limitations in propagating male-sterile plants without segregations in the next generation or insufficient restoration of fertility when fruits or seeds are to be harvested from the hybrid varieties. Here a novel mechanism of restoration for male sterility is presented that has been achieved by interference with extracellular invertase activity, which is normally specifically expressed in the anthers to supply the developing microspores with carbohydrates. Microspores are symplastically isolated in the locular space of the anthers, and thus an unloading pathway of assimilates via the apoplasmic space is mandatory for proper development of pollen. Antisense repression of the anther-specific cell wall invertase or interference with invertase activity by expressing a proteinacious inhibitor under the control of the anther-specific invertase promoter results in a block during early stages of pollen development, thus causing male sterility without having any pleiotropic effects. Restoration of fertility was successfully achieved by substituting the down-regulated endogenous plant invertase activity by a yeast invertase fused to the N-terminal portion of potato-derived vacuolar protein proteinase II (PiII-ScSuc2), under control of the orthologous anther-specific invertase promoter Nin88 from tobacco. The chimeric fusion PiII-ScSuc2 is known to be N-glycosylated and efficiently secreted from plant cells, leading to its apoplastic location. Furthermore, the Nin88::PiII-ScSuc2 fusion does not show effects on pollen development in the wild-type background. Thus, such plants can be used as paternal parents of a hybrid variety, thereby the introgression of Nin88::PiII-ScSuc2 to the hybrid is obtained and fertility is restored. In order to broaden the applicability of this male sterility/restoration system to other plant species, a phylogenic analysis of plant invertases(beta-fructofuranosidases) and related genes of different species was carried out. This reveals a specific clustering of the cell wall invertases with anther-specific expression for dicotyl species and another cluster for monocotyl plants. Thus, in both groups of plants, there seems to be a kind of co-evolution, but no recent common ancestor of these members of the gene family. These findings provide a helpful orientation to classify corresponding candidate genes in further plant species, in addition to the species analysed so far (Arabidopsis, tobacco, tomato, potato, carrots, rice, and wheat).
20429134
20429135
20429951	Endogenous non-coding small RNAs (21-24 nt) play an important role in post-transcriptional gene regulation in plants. Domestication selection is the most important evolutionary force in shaping crop genomes. The extent of polymorphism at small RNA loci in domesticated rice and whether small RNA loci are targets of domestication selection have not yet been determined. A polymorphism survey of 94 small RNA loci (88 MIRNAs, four TAS3 loci and two miRNA-like long hairpins) was conducted in domesticated rice, generating 2 Mb of sequence data. Many mutations (substitution or insertion/deletion) were observed at small RNA loci in domesticated rice, e.g. 12 mutation sites were observed in the mature miRNA sequences of 11 MIRNAs (12.5% of the investigated MIRNAs). Several small RNA loci showed significant signals for positive selection and/or potential domestication selection. Sequence variation at miRNAs and other small RNAs is higher than expected in domesticated rice. Like protein-coding genes, non-coding small RNA loci could be targets of domestication selection and play an important role in rice domestication and improvement.
20430069	The endemic of chronic renal failure (CRF) emerged in 2002 in the farming provinces of Sri Lanka. An estimate of dietary cadmium intake was between 15 and 28 microg/kg body weight per week. The mean urinary cadmium in patients diagnosed with stage 5 kidney failure was 7.6 microg/g creatinine and 11.6 microg/g for asymptomatic persons. The agrochemical triple superphosphate (TSP) fertilizer containing 23.5-71.7 mg Cd/kg was the source of cadmium added to soils. Mean Cd content in cultivated vs. uncultivated soils in Anuradhapura district was 0.02 +/- 0.01 vs. 0.11 +/- 0.19 mg/kg while in Polonnaruwa district, it was 0.005 +/- 0.004 vs. 0.016 +/- 0.005 mg/kg. Prior to the Green Revolution, the amount of fertilizer used in rice cultivation in 1970 was 32,000 metric tons (Mts) rising to 74,000 Mts in 1975. Up to 68.9 Mts of Cd could have entered into the rice-cascade reservoir environment from TSP use since 1973. Diversion of the Mahaweli River in 1970-1980 further increased cadmium input. Cadmium transfer from Upper Mahaweli water to Polgolla was 72.13 kg/day. Cadmium content of the sediments from reservoirs collecting cadmium from irrigated TSP fertilized crop fields (rice and vegetables) was 1.8-2.4 mg/kg.
20431261	Throughout my research life, I experienced to discover the causes of some neurological diseases in Japan. 1) SMON (subacute myelo-optico-neuropathy). Since the early 1960s, a peculiar neurological disease became prevalent throughout Japan. Through the chemical analysis of the green urine, characteristic of this disease, it was found that this disease was caused by intoxication of the administered clioquinol, an anti-diarrheal drug. This discovery is a big topic in the history of Japanese medicine. 2) In early 1970s, I experienced many young patients with oedema and polyneuropathy in Kagoshima. Finally it was found that the disease was the long-forgotten beriberi, which had disappeared several decades ago. We must always be aware of beriberi even now, as far as we eat well-polished rice. 3) In 1972, we noticed a group of sporadic paraparesis in Kagoshima, which was 20 years later confirmed to be induced by human T lymphotropic virus type-I (HTLV-I). We named this disease as "HTLV-I associated myelopathy" (HAM). It gave a strong impact that the causative virus of adult T cell leukemia (ATL) can induce entirely different diseases, in terms of both the clinical course and the pathological features. It was also proven that HAM was identical with tropical spastic paraparesis, (TSP), which had been prevalent in many areas of tropical zones. These experiences are good examples of our slogan "to keep in mind to send message of scientific progress from the local area to the international stage.
20431801	The worldwide prevalence of diabetes mellitus has risen dramatically in the developing countries over the past two decades. Regular screening of adults is essential for early detection and care. There are limited studies on diabetes awareness and prevalence in rural communities. Hence this prevalence and knowledge assessment study was undertaken. Such data are extremely important to plan the public health policies with specific reference to implementation of National Diabetic Control Program. To study the prevalence and awareness of diabetes mellitus in rural areas. Cross-sectional, household study. A study on adults and elderly age group in Tamaka village was undertaken. Structured questionnaire was used to assess the knowledge of diabetes and capillary blood screening tests done to detect diabetes. SPSS - 11 software. Ten per cent of the 311 adults screened had hyperglycemia. Half of the interviewed population had some awareness about diabetes and its symptoms. But more than half (75%) of them were not aware of the long term effects of diabetes and diabetic care. The common perception about diet in diabetes was to avoid sweets, rice and fruits and to consume more ragi, millet and wheat chapattis. Diabetes in young adults is common. Relevant knowledge about diabetes is poor in rural population. Hence community level awareness programs have to be organized. Healthcare providers must be aware of community perceptions and practices.
20431959	We characterized the glucosylceramide moieties from maize and rice using liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry. Glucosylceramides containing 4,8-sphingadienine (d18:2) acylated to hydroxy-fatty acids were detected as the predominant molecules both in maize and in rice. In addition, 4-hydroxy-8-sphingenine (t18:1) and sphingatrienine (d18:3) were found in maize and rice glucosylceramides, and in the case of rice, sphingenine (d18:1) was also detected. Glucosylceramides containing d18:3 were acylated to hydroxyl fatty acids (16-24 carbon atoms). Our results indicate the presence of the triene type of sphingoid base in higher plants.
20432157	A new sesquiterpene, monaspilosuslin, as well as seven known compounds 3beta-hydroxystigmast-5-en-7-one, beta-sitostenone, monascin, ankaflavin, N-trans-feruloyltyramine, vanillic acid and alpha-tocopheryl quinone, were isolated from the n-BuOH-soluble fraction of the 70% ethanolic extract of red yeast rice fermented with the fungus Monascus pilosus BCRC 38072 (Eurotiaceae). The structures of these compounds were determined by analyses of spectroscopic data, mainly 2D nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments. All of the isolates were also evaluated for their scavenging properties toward the 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrazyl (DPPH) radical in thin layer chromatography (TLC) autographic and spectroscopic methods.
20432653	Removing dissolved metals from urban storMwater may be required to protect aquatic species in particular watersheds. This research examined the adsorption of zinc and copper on 12 granular activated carbons, of which six were obtained commercially and six were produced by thermal activation of agricultural byproducts in the laboratory. Batch studies were used to obtain single solute distribution coefficients at pH 7. Copper distribution coefficients were higher than those for zinc on each of the 12 adsorbents. Granular activated carbon (GAC) produced from nutshells was less effective than that produced from rice materials (straw and hulls). The rice-derived GACs had the highest zinc distribution coefficients, and the commercial GACs typically exhibited higher copper distribution coefficients. Distribution coefficients for zinc and copper typically were higher for the materials tested in this study than in previous research, possibly because of the lower dissolved metal concentrations used, which were chosen to represent highway stormwater. Adsorption isotherms were obtained for zinc and copper adsorption on one commercial GAC and on activated rice hulls in buffered laboratory water and in highway stormwater. The constituents in stormwater caused a reduction in sorption of zinc and copper of up to 80%. The results suggest that 1 kg of activated rice hulls could treat up to 7 m3 of stormwater for zinc or 46 m3 of copper before exhaustion at the 90th percentile dissolved concentrations in California highway stormwater. The higher stormwater concentration and lower GAC affinity of zinc means that this constituent typically will limit adsorption system design for removal of multiple metals from stormwater.
20433126	Dietary factors that influence lipid levels include modification of nutritional components, consumption of specific foods, use of food additives and supplements, and major dietary approaches. The most beneficial changes result from reducing intake of saturated and trans fats; increasing intake of polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats; fortifying foods with plant stanols or sterols; isocalorically adding tree nuts to the diet; consuming one or two alcoholic drinks per day; and adopting a Portfolio, Mediterranean, low-carbohydrate, or low-fat diet. Smaller but still beneficial effects result from reducing intake of dietary cholesterol, increasing intake of soluble fiber and soy protein, and eating fatty marine fish or taking marine-derived omega-3 fatty acid supplements. Red yeast rice supplements have effects similar to those of statin medications and are better tolerated in some patients. Regular aerobic exercise has beneficial effects on lipid levels, particularly if performed for at least 120 minutes per week. Brief physician counseling will have relatively small effects on unselected patients, so efforts should be concentrated on patients who are motivated and ready to make lifestyle changes.
20433195	Water-deficit or dehydration impairs almost all physiological processes and greatly influences the geographical distribution of many crop species. It has been postulated that higher plants rely mostly on induction mechanisms to maintain cellular integrity during stress conditions. Plant cell wall or extracellular matrix (ECM) forms an important conduit for signal transduction between the apoplast and symplast and acts as front-line defense, thereby playing a key role in cell fate decision under various stress conditions. To better understand the molecular mechanism of dehydration response in plants, four-week-old rice seedlings were subjected to progressive dehydration by withdrawing water and the changes in the ECM proteome were examined using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Dehydration-responsive temporal changes revealed 192 proteins that change their intensities by more than 2.5-fold, at one or more time points during dehydration. The proteomic analysis led to the identification of about 100 differentially regulated proteins presumably involved in a variety of functions, including carbohydrate metabolism, cell defense and rescue, cell wall modification, cell signaling and molecular chaperones, among others. The differential rice proteome was compared with the dehydration-responsive proteome data of chickpea and maize. The results revealed an evolutionary divergence in the dehydration response as well as organ specificity, with few conserved proteins. The differential expression of the candidate proteins, in conjunction with previously reported results, may provide new insight into the underlying mechanisms of the dehydration response in plants. This may also facilitate the targeted alteration of metabolic routes in the cell wall for agricultural and industrial exploitation.
20433928	Human lactoferrin (hLF) is a multifunctional milk protein which could be utilized for promoting human health. Transgenic rice has been used as a bioreactor for mass production of recombinant hLF. However, one major concern over such transgenic rice is the risk of its unintended spreading into environment and into our food supplies. Here we report the development of selectively terminable transgenic rice expressing human lactoferrin in seeds. These transgenic rice plants could be selectively terminated by bentazon, a common herbicide used for rice weed control. The hLF expression cassette was constructed into a T-DNA containing the RNA interference cassette suppressing the expression of the rice gene CYP81A6 which detoxifies herbicide bentazon, and the 5-enolpyruvylshikimate-3-phosphate synthase (EPSPS) cassette which confers to glyphosate tolerance. A transgenic line, named as G281, was identified for its high sensitivity to bentazon, high tolerance to glyphosate, and high expression of hLF. Southern analysis suggested G281 is a single copy insertion event. Field tests demonstrated that G281 plants can be completely killed by a single spray of bentazon at 1000 mg/L, which is safe to regular rice and represents only half of the dose recommended by manufacturer for rice field weed control. Therefore, any G281 contaminations in regular rice could be selectively terminated to make sure it will not enter food or feed supplies.
20435107	High levels of cadmium (Cd) in paddy soil and rice, and a concurrent increase in urinary Cd of inhabitants in the Mae Sot District, Tak Province, Thailand first emerged in 2003. Risk factors such as occupation, sources of staple food and drinking water as well as biomarkers of adverse renal effects of the increased body burden of Cd were investigated in 795 residents, 30 years or older, whose urinary Cd levels were between 0.02 and 106mug/g creatinine. Farmers who consumed their own rice and residents who sourced drinking water from wells and/or the river demonstrated increased urinary Cd. Age-adjusted mean urinary cadmium for male and female subjects who consumed well water was 5.7mug/g vs. 6.1mug/g creatinine while the corresponding value for male and female subjects who did not consume well water was 3.7mug/g vs. 4.8mug/g creatinine, respectively. Increased urinary levels of beta(2)-microglobulin and N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase were observed with the increase in urinary Cd, indicating tubular dysfunction and renal damage associated with increase in Cd body burden. Consumption of well water and rice grown in the contaminated area increase the body burden of Cd. Cessation of exposure is essential to prevent and possibly recover from Cd toxicity, especially among the residents whose kidney damage and malfunction may be reversible.
20435900	Knowledge remains limited about how fungal pathogens that colonize living plant cells translocate effector proteins inside host cells to regulate cellular processes and neutralize defense responses. To cause the globally important rice blast disease, specialized invasive hyphae (IH) invade successive living rice (Oryza sativa) cells while enclosed in host-derived extrainvasive hyphal membrane. Using live-cell imaging, we identified a highly localized structure, the biotrophic interfacial complex (BIC), which accumulates fluorescently labeled effectors secreted by IH. In each newly entered rice cell, effectors were first secreted into BICs at the tips of the initially filamentous hyphae in the cell. These tip BICs were left behind beside the first-differentiated bulbous IH cells as the fungus continued to colonize the host cell. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments showed that the effector protein PWL2 (for prevents pathogenicity toward weeping lovegrass [Eragrostis curvula]) continued to accumulate in BICs after IH were growing elsewhere. PWL2 and BAS1 (for biotrophy-associated secreted protein 1), BIC-localized secreted proteins, were translocated into the rice cytoplasm. By contrast, BAS4, which uniformly outlines the IH, was not translocated into the host cytoplasm. Fluorescent PWL2 and BAS1 proteins that reached the rice cytoplasm moved into uninvaded neighbors, presumably preparing host cells before invasion. We report robust assays for elucidating the molecular mechanisms that underpin effector secretion into BICs, translocation to the rice cytoplasm, and cell-to-cell movement in rice.
20437027	The environmental behavior of 40% profenofos EC under paddy field conditions was studied. After application of 40% profenofos EC at 900 g a.i./ha level, the initial deposits of profenofos on rice plant, soil and water were found to be 32.700, 0.224 and 3.854 mg/kg respectively. Half-lives (t(1/2)) of profenofos on those substrates were observed to be 5.47, 3.75 and 3.42 days respectively. The residue levels of profenofos on rice straw, soil and rice grain were significantly affected by the dosage and frequency applied. The obtained results might help to recommend the suitable dose and calculate the safety period of profenofos application.
20437038	Application of monosulfuron, a new sulfonylurea herbicide, produced a simulative effect on heterocyst formation and nitrogenase activity but an inhibitory effect on photosynthesis, i.e., a lower net photosynthetic rate, fewer photosynthetic pigments, and a smaller Fv/Fm ratio at increasingly higher monosulfuron concentrations (0.001-10 mg/l) for three nonspecific filamentous nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria: Anabaena azollae, A. flos-aquae, and A. azotica. The decrease in biliprotein of algal cells was less than that of carotenoid and chlorophyll-a. Monosulfuron was more readily degraded and less accumulated in A. azotica compared with A. azollae and A. flos-aquae. The three algae exhibited varying degrees of sensitivity to monosulfuron: Calculated 50% inhibition concentrations (IC(50)s) of algal growth and no observed-effect concentration (NOEC) values after 4 days of treatment were 0.014 and 0.005, 0.029 and 0.019, and 0.22 and 0.075 mg/l for A. flos-aquae, A. azollae, and A. azotica, respectively. Normal agricultural use of monosulfuron at postemergence rates of 0.3-0.8 mg/l in rice fields will likely be toxic to these three ubiquitous nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria. Low-dose monosulfuron application (<0.1 mg/l) enables growth of the more tolerant A. azotica as biofertilizer, and the use of photosynthetic efficiency and growth rates as sensitive-indicator indexes of toxicity to nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria are recommended.
20437681	The aim of this study was to elucidate the species diversity of larva trematodes in the Mazandaran Province, Northern Iran. In this cross-sectional study, a total of 3,266 lymnaeid snails from 3 species were collected from different parts of streams, swamps, rice fields and rivers in the central areas of Mazandaran Province (Sari, Neka, Qaemshahr and Savad-Koh cities), during April to September, 2008. The samples were tested by crushing and emerging methods. From the total of examined snails, 119 (3.6%) were found to be infected with the lymnaeid snails. Lymnaea gedrosiana were found to be infected with the Furcocercariae of Diplostomidae, Clinostomidae, Echinostomatidae and also cercariae of the Plagiorchiidae. The latest infection was found to be in L. palustris. The Mazandaran Province with its temperate climate is a suitable place for living of snails, particularly lymnaeidae, that could have a significant role as an intermediate host of diseases.
20437683	In this study, different brans of Thai rice cultivars which were divided into 3 groups: white color (Hom mali 105, Supan, Saohai, Hom chaiya and Hom jun), red color (3256, GS 18003, 21606, 21699 and 5718) and black color (96041-20, 96051-37, 96004-49, 96023-35 and 96065-42) were investigated their Total Phenolic Content (TPC) and antioxidant activities. The rice brans were firstly extracted using methanol. The extracts were analyzed using Folin-Ciocalteau method for total phenolic content while thiocyanate method and 1,1-diphenyl-2-picrylhydrasyl (DPPH) free radical-scavenging assay were used for antioxidant activities determination. The results indicated that the total phenolic content of white, red and black rice bran extract were in the range of 0.8931-0.9884, 1.0103-1.0494 and 1.0810-1.2239 mg gallic acid equivalent (GAE mg(-1)), respectively. With thiocyanate method, percentage inhibition were in the range of 10.15-20.68, 30.64-38.80 and 25.52-26.28 for white, red and black rice bran extract, respectively. With DPPH radical-scavenging assay, methanolic extract of 5718 showed the highest (IC50=0.0057 mg mL(-1)) while Homchaiya showed the lowest (IC50=0.2582 mg mL(-1)) activities. All of extracts showed lower activity than BHA (IC50=0.0012 mg mL(-1)). However, the antioxidant activity of all rice bran extracts indicated high antioxidant efficiency in the following order: red>black>white color rice brans. It is a promising that Thai rice bran are potential antioxidant sources.
20437953	Based on the carbon-nitrogen cycles and greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation and emission processes related to straw return and burning, a compound greenhouse gas budget model, the "Straw Return and Burning Model" (SRBM), was constructed to estimate the net mitigation potential of straw return to the soil in China. As a full GHG budget model, the SRBM addressed the following five processes: (1) soil carbon sequestration, (2) mitigation of synthetic N fertilizer substitution, (3) methane emission from rice paddies, (4) additional fossil fuel use for straw return, and (5) CH4 and N2O emissions from straw burning in the fields. Two comparable scenarios were created to reflect different degrees of implementation for straw return and straw burning. With GHG emissions and mitigation effects of the five processes converted into global warming potential (GWP), the net GHG mitigation was estimated. We concluded that (1) when the full greenhouse gas budget is considered, the net mitigation potential of straw return differs from that when soil carbon sequestration is considered alone; (2) implementation of straw return across a larger area of cropland in 10 provinces (i.e., Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Jiangxi, Hubei, Hunan, Guangdong, Guangxi, and Hainan) will increase net GHG emission; (3) if straw return is promoted as a feasible mitigation measure in the remaining provinces, the total net mitigation potential before soil organic carbon (SOC) saturation will be 71.89 Tg CO2 equivalent (eqv)/yr, which is equivalent to 1.733% of the annual carbon emission from fossil fuel use in China in 2003; (4) after SOC saturation, only 13 of 21 provinces retain a relatively small but permanent net mitigation potential, while in the others the net GHG mitigation potential will gradually diminish; and (5) the major obstacle to the feasibility or permanence of straw return as a mitigation measure is the increased CH4 emission from rice paddies. The paper also suggests that comparable scenarios in which all the related carbon-nitrogen cycles are taken into account be created to estimate the mitigation potentials of organic wastes in different utilizations and treatments.
20438497	Thirty-six male Hu lambs consuming a rice straw-based diet were used in a 60-day trial to study the associative effects of cornstarch supplementation on intake, digestion, ruminal microbial population and growth performance. All animals were fed rice straw ad libitum together with 160 g/day of rapeseed meal and supplemented with cornstarch at levels of 0 (control), 60, 120 or 180 g/day, respectively. Increment of supplementary cornstarch showed little influence on rice straw intake. Optimal growth performance and highest apparent digestibility of organic matter was achieved in the 120 g/day cornstarch group (P < 0.05), while the digestibilities of neutral detergent fiber and crude protein were significantly decreased by 180 g/day cornstarch (P < 0.05). Similar results were observed for carboxymethyl cellulose activity and relative populations of cellulolytic bacteria (Ruminococcus albus, Ruminococcus flavefaciens and Fibrobacter succinogene). Blood urea nitrogen was reduced by supplementary cornstarch, indicating enhanced protein utilization efficiency. Carcass traits were all significantly improved by supplementary cornstarch. These results suggested that proper amounts of starch supplementation (within 0.5% BW) has little adverse effect on forage utilization, but could effectively improve growth performance. High levels of cornstarch, however, would decrease cellulase activity and populations of cellulolytic bacteria, and hence the digestibility of forage.
20438643	Gene duplication provides raw genetic materials for evolutionary novelty and adaptation. The evolutionary fate of duplicated transcription factor genes is less studied although transcription factor gene plays important roles in many biological processes. TFIIAgamma is a small subunit of TFIIA that is one of general transcription factors required by RNA polymerase II. Previous studies identified two TFIIAgamma-like genes in rice genome and found that these genes either conferred resistance to rice bacterial blight or could be induced by pathogen invasion, raising the question as to their functional divergence and evolutionary fates after gene duplication. We reconstructed the evolutionary history of the TFIIAgamma genes from main lineages of angiosperms and demonstrated that two TFIIAgamma genes (TFIIAgamma1 and TFIIAgamma5) arose from a whole genome duplication that happened in the common ancestor of grasses. Likelihood-based analyses with branch, codon, and branch-site models showed no evidence of positive selection but a signature of relaxed selective constraint after the TFIIAgamma duplication. In particular, we found that the nonsynonymous/synonymous rate ratio (omega = dN/dS) of the TFIIAgamma1 sequences was two times higher than that of TFIIAgamma5 sequences, indicating highly asymmetric rates of protein evolution in rice tribe and its relatives, with an accelerated rate of TFIIAgamma1 gene. Our expression data and EST database search further indicated that after whole genome duplication, the expression of TFIIAgamma1 gene was significantly reduced while TFIIAgamma5 remained constitutively expressed and maintained the ancestral role as a subunit of the TFIIA complex. The evolutionary fate of TFIIAgamma duplicates is not consistent with the neofunctionalization model that predicts that one of the duplicated genes acquires a new function because of positive Darwinian selection. Instead, we suggest that subfunctionalization might be involved in TFIIAgamma evolution in grasses. The fact that both TFIIAgamma1 and TFIIAgamma5 genes were effectively involved in response to biotic or abiotic factors might be explained by either Dykhuizen-Hartl effect or buffering hypothesis.
20438845	The rice blast disease caused by the ascomycete Magnaporthe grisea continues to cause a tremendous impact in rice (Oryza sativa) cultures around the world. Elucidating the molecular basis of the fungus interactions with its host might help increase the general understanding of the pathogen-host relationship. At the moment of invasion, the fungus secretes effectors that modify host defenses and cellular processes as they successively invade living rice cells. PWL2, an effector protein, is a known AVR (avirulence) gene product. The PWL2 gene prevents the fungus from infecting weeping lovegrass (Eragrostis curvula). In this study, we identified a PWL2 allele gene (which we termed PWL2D) in a strain of M. grisea. The sequence of PWL2D has only two bases different from that of PWL2, producing alterations in residue 90 and residue 142. However, the alteration of residue 90 (from D(90) to N(90)) is critical to gene function. Here, we cloned the gene PWL2D in a pET System vector, expressed the gene product in Escherichia coli and evaluated by spectroscopic techniques some aspects of the PWL2D structure. While TRX-tagged PWL2D is prone to aggregation, the solubility of PWL2D is improved when it is overexpressed without its original signal peptide. Expression and purification procedures for these constructs are described. Finally, we found out that the protein seems to be an intrinsically disordered protein. Results from these studies will facilitate structural analysis of PWL2D and might contribute to understanding the gene's function and of fungal/plant interactions.
20439547	SAG39 is a rice (Oryza sativa) gene that encodes a cysteine protease. SAG39 shares 55% homology with the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) senescence-associated protein SAG12. The promoter for SAG39 (P(SAG39)) was isolated, and SAG39 expression was determined to be relatively low in mature leaves, while not expressed in the endosperm. SAG39 mRNA levels increased as senescence progressed, with maximum accumulation of transcripts at late senescence stages. Gel retardation assays indicated that two cis-acting elements in P(SAG39), HBOXCONSENSUSPVCHS and WRKY71OS, responded to leaf senescence. To test if P(SAG39) could be useful for increasing rice yields by increasing cytokinin content and delaying senescence, homozygous transgenic plants were obtained by linking P(SAG39) to the ipt gene and introducing it into Zhonghua 11. The chlorophyll level of the flag leaf was used to monitor senescence, confirming the stay-green phenotype in P(SAG39):ipt transgenic rice versus wild-type plants. Changes in the cytokinin content led to early flowering and a greater number of emerged panicles 70 d after germination in the transgenic rice. Measurements of sugar and nitrogen contents in flag leaves demonstrated a transition in the source-sink relationship in transgenic plants triggered at the onset of leaf senescence, with the nitrogen content decreasing more slowly, while sugars were removed more rapidly than in wild-type plants. The importance of these changes to rice physiology, yield, and early maturation will be discussed.
20440406	With the completion of rice genome sequencing, large collection of expression data and the great efforts in annotating rice genomes, the next challenge is to systematically assign functions to all predicted genes in the genome. The generations and collections of mutants at the genome-wide level form technological platform of functional genomics. In this study, we have reviewed currently employed tools to generate such mutant populations. These tools include natural, physical, chemical, tissue culture, T-DNA, transposon or gene silencing based mutagenesis. We also reviewed how these tools were used to generate a large collection of mutants and how these mutants can be screened and detected for functional analysis of a gene. The data suggested that the current population of mutants might be large enough to tag all predicted genes. However, the collection of flanking sequencing tags (FSTs) is limited due to the relatively higher cost. Thus, we have proposed a new strategy to generate gene-silencing mutants at the genome-wide level. Due to the large collection of insertion mutants, the next step to rice functional genomics should be focusing on functional characterization of tagged genes by detailed survey of corresponding mutants. Additionally, we also evaluated the utilization of these mutants as valuable resources for molecular breeding.
20440458	Human gnathostomiasis has been reported in Ecuador since the early 1980s, when natural infections by Gnathostoma third larval stages were found in muscles of the second intermediary host, Hoplias microlepis (tigerfish). In Ecuador, this zoonotic disease is occasionally detected in humans, and its monitoring and eco-epidemiological assessment is of particular interest for its detection and control. The most recent evidence is provided with respect to natural infections by Gnathostoma as it occurs in the tigerfish (Hoplias microlepis), including insights into its biological cycle. A total of 74 fish were collected from two localities (rice fields-wetlands and local fish market) of Samborondón County (Guayas Province). Each was examined for the presence of Gnathostoma in muscle of Hoplias microlepis. The abundance intensity and prevalence of parasites was estimated. Statistical comparisons between the two sites and correlations of parasite load versus fish size were conducted. The infection prevalence by Gnathostoma was 69% (95% CI: 57-78%). The overall abundance intensity of parasites averaging the 2 sites was 1.7 larvae per fish. The proportion of infected fish was higher in rice fields (77%) when compared to those from the local fish market (62%). No statistically significant differences between the abundance intensity and prevalence were found between the sites (p>0.05). Parasite load and fish length were significantly correlated (Spearman p<0.05). Gnathostomiasis is a prevalent zoonosis in coastal Ecuador, and its etiologic agent is commonly found in the second intermediary host. Several Neotropical mammals are candidates as definitive reservoir hosts in the Gnathostoma biological cycle.
20440494	Estimating and analyzing the temporal and spatial patterns of methane emissions from agriculture (MEA) will help China formulate mitigation and adaptation strategies for the nation's agricultural sector. Based on the Tier 2 method presented in the 2006 guidelines of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and on existing reports, this article presents a systematic estimation of MEA in China from 1990 to 2006, with a particular emphasis on trends and spatial distribution. Results from our study indicate that China's MEA rose from 16.37 Tg yr(-1) in 1990 to 19.31 Tg yr(-1) in 2006, with an average annual increase of 1.04%. Over the study period, while emissions from field burning of crop residues remained rather low, those from rice cultivation and from livestock typically decreased and increased, respectively, showing extremely opposite trends that chiefly resulted from changes in the cultivated areas for different rice seasons and changes in the populations of different animal species. Over the study period, China's high-MEA regions shifted generally northward, chiefly as a result of reduced emissions from rice cultivation in most of China's southern provinces and a substantial growth in emissions from livestock enteric fermentation in most of China's northern, northeastern, and northwestern provinces. While this article provides significant information on estimates of MEA in China, it also includes some uncertainties in terms of estimating emissions from each source category. We conclude that China's MEA will likely continue to increase in the future and recommend a demonstration study on MEA mitigation along the middle and lower reaches of the Yellow River. We further recommend enhanced data monitoring and statistical analysis, which will be essential for preparation of the national greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory.
20440580	Fresh-harvested, air-dried rice straw was pretreated at a water content of 5 g H(2)O/g straw using sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and compared to pretreatment at 10 g H(2)O/g straw by hydrated lime (Ca(OH)(2)). Full factorial experiments including parallel wash-only treatments were completed with both sources of alkali. The experiments were designed to measure the effects of alkaline loading and pretreatment time on delignification and sugar yield upon enzymatic hydrolysis. Reaction temperature was held constant at 95 degrees C for lime pretreatment and 55 degrees C for NaOH pretreatment. The range of delignification was 13.1% to 27.0% for lime pretreatments and was 8.6% to 23.1% for NaOH pretreatments. Both alkaline loading and reaction time had significant positive effects (p < 0.001) on delignification under the design conditions, but only alkaline loading had a significant positive effect on enzymatic hydrolysis. Treatment at higher temperature also improved delignification; delignification with water alone ranged from 9.9% to 14.5% for pretreatment at 95 degrees C, but there was little effect observed at 55 degrees C. Post-pretreatment washing of biomass was not necessary for subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis. Maximum glucose yields were 176.3 mg/g dried biomass (48.5% conversion efficiency of total glucose) in lime-pretreated and unwashed biomass and were 142.3 mg/g dried biomass (39.2% conversion efficiency of total glucose) in NaOH-pretreated and unwashed biomass.
20441221	The seed proteome of a low phytic acid (lpa) rice line (Os-lpa-XS110-1), developed as a novel food source, was compared to that of its parental line, Xiushui 110 (XS-110). Analysis by surfaced enhanced laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF MS) and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) allowed the detection of a potential low molecular weight biomarker and identification of 23 differentially expressed proteins that include stress-related proteins, storage proteins, and potential allergens. Bioinformatic analyses revealed that triose phosphate isomerase (TPI) and fructose bisphosphatealdolase (FBA), two major differentially expressed proteins, are involved in myo-inositol metabolism. Accumulation of globulin was also significantly decreased in the lpa line. This study demonstrates the potential of proteomic and bioinformatic profiling techniques for safety assessment of novel foods. Furthermore, these techniques provide powerful tools for studying functional genomics due to the possibility of identifying genes related to the mutated traits.
20441864	A cold vapor atomic fluorescence spectrometry method (CV-AFS) has been developed for the determination of Hg in rice samples at a few ngg(-1) concentration level. The method is based on the previous digestion of samples in a microwave oven with HNO(3) and H(2)O(2) followed by dilution with water containing KBr/KBrO(3) and hydroxylamine and reduction with SnCl(2) in HCl using external calibration. The matrix interferences and the effect of nitrogen oxide vapors have been evaluated and the method validated using a certified reference material. The limit of detection of the method was 0.9ngg(-1) with a recovery percentage of 95+/-4% at an added concentration of 5ngg(-1). The concentration level of Hg found in 24 natural rice samples from different origin ranged between 1.3 and 7.8ngg(-1).
20443024	Appropriate leaf shape has proved to be useful in improving photosynthesis and increasing grain yield. To understand the molecular mechanism of leaf morphogenesis, we identified a rice mutant nrl1, which was characterized by a phenotype of narrow and rolled leaves. Microscopic observation showed that the mutation significantly decreased the number of vascular bundles of leaf and stem. Genetic analysis revealed that the mutation was controlled by a single nuclear-encoded recessive gene. To isolate the nrl1 gene, 756 F(2) and F(3) mutant individuals from a cross of the nrl1 mutant with Longtepu were used and a high-resolution physical map of the chromosomal region around the nrl1 gene was made. Finally, the gene was mapped in 16.5 kb region between marker RL21 and marker RL36 within the BAC clone OSJNBa0027H05. Cloning and sequencing of the target region from the mutant showed that there was a 58 bp deletion within the second exon of the cellulose synthase-like D4 gene (TIGR locus Os12g36890). The nrl1 mutation was rescued by transformation with the wild-type cellulose synthase-like D4 gene. Accordingly, the cellulose synthase-like D4 gene was identified as the NRL1 gene. NRL1 was transcribed in various tissues and was mainly expressed in panicles and internodes. NAL7 and SLL1 were found to be upregulated, whereas OsAGO7 were downregulated in the nrl1 mutant. These findings suggested that there might be a functional association between these genes in regulating leaf development.
20444194	Reverse genetics is used for functional genomics research in model plants. To establish a model system for the systematic reverse genetics research in the Rosaceae family, we analyzed genomic DNA flanking the T-DNA insertions in 191 transgenic plants of the diploid strawberry, Fragaria vesca. One hundred and seventy-six T-DNA flanking sequences were amplified from the right border (RB) and 37 from the left border (LB) by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR. Analysis of the T-DNA nick positions revealed that T-DNA was most frequently nicked at the cleavage sites. Analysis of 11 T-DNA integration sites indicated that T-DNA was integrated into the F. vesca genome by illegitimate recombination, as reported in other model plants: Arabidopsis, rice and tobacco. First, deletion of DNA was found at T-DNA integration target sites in all transgenic plants tested. Second, microsimilarities of a few base pairs between the left and/or right ends of the T-DNA and genomic sites were found in all transgenic plants tested. Finally, filler DNA was identified in four break-points. Out of 191 transgenic plants, T-DNA flanking sequences of 79 plants (41%) showed significant similarity to genes, elements or proteins of other plant species and 67 (35%) of the sequences are still unknown strawberry gene fragments. T-DNA flanking sequences of 126 plants (66%) showed homology to plant ESTs. This is the first report of T-DNA integration in a sizeable population of a rosaceous species. We have shown in this paper that T-DNA integration in strawberry is not random but directed by sequence microsimilarities in the host genome.
20444225	Kinesins are encoded by a large gene family involved in many basic processes of plant development. However, the number of functionally identified kinesins in rice is very limited. Here, we report the functional characterization of Brittle Culm12 (BC12), a gene encoding a kinesin-4 protein. bc12 mutants display dwarfism resulting from a significant reduction in cell number and brittleness due to an alteration in cellulose microfibril orientation and wall composition. BC12 is expressed mainly in tissues undergoing cell division and secondary wall thickening. In vitro biochemical analyses verified BC12 as an authentic motor protein. This protein was present in both the nucleus and cytoplasm and associated with microtubule arrays during cell division. Mitotic microtubule array comparison, flow cytometric analysis and expression assays of cyclin-dependent kinase (CDK) complexes in root-tip cells showed that cell-cycle progression is affected in bc12 mutants. BC12 is very probably regulated by CDKA;3 based on yeast two-hybrid and microarray data. Therefore, BC12 functions as a dual-targeting kinesin protein and is implicated in cell-cycle progression, cellulose microfibril deposition and wall composition in the monocot plant rice.
20444276	RNA quality and quantity is sometimes unsuitable for cDNA library construction, from plant seeds rich in oil, polysaccharides and other secondary metabolites. Seeds of jatropha (Jatropha curcas L.) are rich in fatty acids/lipids, storage proteins, polysaccharides, and a number of other secondary metabolites that could either bind and/or co-precipitate with RNA, making it unsuitable for downstream applications. Existing RNA isolation methods and commercial kits often fail to deliver high-quality total RNA from immature jatropha seeds for poly(A)+ RNA purification and cDNA synthesis. A protocol has been developed for isolating good quality total RNA from immature jatropha seeds, whereby a combination of the CTAB based RNA extraction method and a silica column of a commercial plant RNA extraction kit is used. The extraction time was reduced from two days to about 3 hours and the RNA was suitable for poly(A)+ RNA purification, cDNA synthesis, cDNA library construction, RT-PCR, and Northern hybridization. Based on sequence information from selected clones and amplified PCR product, the cDNA library seems to be a good source of full-length jatropha genes. The method was equally effective for isolating RNA from mustard and rice seeds. This is a simple CTAB + silica column method to extract high quality RNA from oil rich immature jatropha seeds that is suitable for several downstream applications. This method takes less time for RNA extraction and is equally effective for other tissues where the quality and quantity of RNA is highly interfered by the presence of fatty acids, polysaccharides and polyphenols.
20444286	Maximum parsimony is one of the most commonly used criteria for reconstructing phylogenetic trees. Recently, Nakhleh and co-workers extended this criterion to enable reconstruction of phylogenetic networks, and demonstrated its application to detecting reticulate evolutionary relationships. However, one of the major problems with this extension has been that it favors more complex evolutionary relationships over simpler ones, thus having the potential for overestimating the amount of reticulation in the data. An ad hoc solution to this problem that has been used entails inspecting the improvement in the parsimony length as more reticulation events are added to the model, and stopping when the improvement is below a certain threshold. In this paper, we address this problem in a more systematic way, by proposing a nonparametric bootstrap-based measure of support of inferred reticulation events, and using it to determine the number of those events, as well as their placements. A number of samples is generated from the given sequence alignment, and reticulation events are inferred based on each sample. Finally, the support of each reticulation event is quantified based on the inferences made over all samples. We have implemented our method in the NEPAL software tool (available publicly at http://bioinfo.cs.rice.edu/), and studied its performance on both biological and simulated data sets. While our studies show very promising results, they also highlight issues that are inherently challenging when applying the maximum parsimony criterion to detect reticulate evolution.
20444930	Myopathy occurs in approximately 10% of statin-treated patients and is most commonly manifested by myalgias with or without plasma creatine kinase (CK) elevations. Predisposition exists in patients treated with high doses of potent statins and those who are older, female, have a genetic predisposition, and when statins are coadministered with drugs that compete with or inhibit drug metabolism. In symptomatic patients, CK levels may assist in guiding management. If less than five times the upper limit of normal, the existing statin should be titrated to achieve cholesterol goals and the CK repeated when symptoms appear or worsen. In patients with moderate to severe symptoms and any patient with CK elevated to more than 5-fold the upper limit of normal, the statin should be stopped. Once asymptomatic and CK is reduced (if elevated previously), cholesterol goals can be approached by: 1) a different statin (e.g. fluvastatin or pravastatin), starting with a low dose and titrating up; 2) an alternate daily or weekly more potent statin (e.g. rosuvastatin or atorvastatin); or 3) the combination of the lowest tolerated statin with a cholesterol absorption inhibitor (ezetimibe) and/or bile acid sequestrant. Over-the-counter preparations, e.g. red yeast rice, containing natural statin-like agents, or plant sterols can also lower cholesterol. These, however, have limited efficacy to achieve targeted cholesterol levels for most patients. In patients without CK elevations and symptoms, progress can be followed clinically, but in patients who show CK elevations, CK should be monitored. At present, the superiority of one approach has not been demonstrated, and the need for clinical trials in well-characterized patients with statin intolerance cannot be dismissed.
20447289	Rice blast, caused by the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe oryzae, is the most devastating disease of rice and severely affects crop stability and sustainability worldwide. This disease has advanced to become one of the premier model fungal pathosystems for host-pathogen interactions because of the depth of comprehensive studies in both species using modern genetic, genomic, proteomic and bioinformatic approaches. Many fungal genes involved in pathogenicity and rice genes involved in effector recognition and defence responses have been identified over the past decade. Specifically, the cloning of a total of nine avirulence (Avr) genes in M. oryzae, 13 rice resistance (R) genes and two rice blast quantitative trait loci (QTLs) has provided new insights into the molecular basis of fungal and plant interactions. In this article, we consider the new findings on the structure and function of the recently cloned R and Avr genes, and provide perspectives for future research directions towards a better understanding of the molecular underpinnings of the rice-M. oryzae interaction.
20447458	Transferrin is an essential ingredient used in cell culture media due to its crucial role in regulating cellular iron uptake, transport, and utilization. It is also a promising drug carrier used to increase a drug's therapeutic index via the unique transferrin receptor-mediated endocytosis pathway. Due to the high risk of contamination with blood-borne pathogens from the use of human or animal plasma-derived transferrin, recombinant transferrin is preferred for use as a replacement for native transferrin. We expressed recombinant human transferrin in rice (Oryza sativa L.) at a high level of 1% seed dry weight (10 g/kg). The recombinant human transferrin was able to be extracted with saline buffers and then purified by a one step anion exchange chromatographic process to greater than 95% purity. The rice-derived recombinant human transferrin was shown to be not only structurally similar to the native human transferrin, but also functionally the same as native transferrin in terms of reversible iron binding and promoting cell growth and productivity. These results indicate that rice-derived recombinant human transferrin should be a safe and low cost alternative to human or animal plasma-derived transferrin for use in cell culture-based biopharmaceutical production of protein therapeutics and vaccines.
20449722	SYP-1924 is a new kind of herbicide developed by Shenyang Scicncreat Chemicals. This study has been carried out to investigate the environmental fate of SYP-1924 in rice-field system. An analytical method utilizing high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) with ultraviolet (UV) detection was described for the determination of new kind of herbicide SYP-1924 in rice, rice straw, soil and water. The dissipation of SYP-1924 in soil, water and rice straw was determined using the proposed method. The results showed that dissipation of SYP-1924 in rice straw and water were found to be very faster with half-life time shorter than 1.5 days. The half-life value of SYP-1924 was observed to be 4.5 days in soil. The ultimate residues of SYP-1924 in rice were found to be below the limits of the detection at level of recommended and 1.5 times recommended dosage with an interval date of 70 days.
20450035	To evaluate the genetic diversity among wild germplasm resources of Coix that distributed at altitude of 550-1550 m in Xishuangbanna, Yunnan province by comparing the morphological variation, biological and economical factors. The field plot experiments were conducted to observation the germination rate, growth period. While the milled rice rate, content of protein, crude fat and ethanol extract of 9 wild Coix germplasm resources were measured. The germination rate of 9 germplasm was from 22% to 81%, and the growth period was among 139-156 d, which belongs to the medium-late mature type. The germination rate, growth stage, plant height, leaf length and width, tiller number, ramification number, seed number per stem of 9 Coix germplasm were significantly different (P < 0.05), respectively. The range of seed total protein contents were from 15.63% 25.74%, crude fat contents were from 5.05%-7.14%, and the contents of alcohol extract, which showed antitumor activity, were from 5.85%-7.27%. The fact of quite different in plant morphological, biological and quality characters of 9 germplasm suggested that the genetic diversity in the wild populations of Coix distributed throughout the regions of Xishuangbanna is relatively abundant.
20450054	To observe the effects of compound red yeast rice extract (CRYRE) on blood lipids, hemorheology and blood coagulant system in rats with hyperlipidemia. SD rats were randomly divided into six groups: normal control group, model group, Xuezhikang group (0. 24 g x kg(-1)), CRYRE high dose group (2.4 g x kg(-1)), middle dose group (1.2 g x kg(-1)) and low dose group (0.6 g x kg(-1)). The normal control rats were given pure water, and rats of other five groups were given 10 mL kg lipid emulsion and subjected to daily intragastric administration simultaneously in two days, continuously for 3 weeks. After the last medication, all the rats were sacrificed for measurement of blood lipids, hemorheology and coagulation factors. CRYRE 2.4 g x kg(-1) could significantly reduce the serum TG, TC levels and increase the HDL-C level (P < 0.01, P < 0.05). CRYRE 0.6-2.4 g x kg(-1) could significantly increase the ratios of HDL-C/TG,HDL-C/TC and HDL-C/LDL-C (P < 0.01). CRYRE 2.4 g x kg(-1) also reduced whole blood viscosity and plasma viscosity (P < 0.01, P < 0.05), prolonged active partial thromboplastin time, and lowered fibrinogen content (P < 0.01, P < 0.05). CRYRE 2.4 g x kg(-1) could reduce blood lipids, blood viscosity and fibrinogen content, improve blood circulation, and depress the alteration of blood coagulant system resulted from lipid metabolic disorder in rats with hyperlipidemia.
20451227	Alkylresorcinols, produced by various plants, bacteria, and fungi, are bioactive compounds possessing beneficial activities for human health, such as anti-cancer activity. In rice, they accumulate in seedlings, contributing to protection against fungi. Alkylresorcylic acids, which are carboxylated forms of alkylresorcinols, are unstable compounds and decarboxylate readily to yield alkylresorcinols. Genome mining of the rice Oryza sativa identified two type III polyketide synthases, named ARAS1 (alkylresorcylic acid synthase) and ARAS2, that catalyze the formation of alkylresorcylic acids. Both enzymes condensed fatty acyl-CoAs with three C(2) units from malonyl-CoA and cyclized the resulting tetraketide intermediates via intramolecular C-2 to C-7 aldol condensation. The alkylresorcylic acids thus produced were released from the enzyme and decarboxylated non-enzymatically to yield alkylresorcinols. This is the first report on a plant type III polyketide synthase that produces tetraketide alkylresorcylic acids as major products.
20451374	The objective of present study was to assess the simultaneous removal of organic pollutants and nutrients by five laboratory scale up-flow constructed wetlands (UFCWs). Aerobic and anaerobic regions were well developed at the upper and lower beds, respectively, in the UFCW reactors with supplementary aeration. The emergent plants employed were Phragmites australis and Manchurian wild rice. The COD, T-N, T-P, NH(4)-N and NO(3)-N removal efficiencies for the UFCW reactors were in the range of 90-94%, 69-92%, 29-52%, 59-98% and 45-100%, respectively. The organic matter and NH(4)-N removal efficiencies in the aerated wetland reactors were better than the non-aerated wetland reactors. The supplementary aeration has enhanced the aerobic biodegradation of organic matter and nitrification. The Manchurian wild rice outperformed P. australis in the removals of T-P, T-N and NH(4)-N.
20451704
20452358	Transgenic rice to control stem borer damage is under development in China. To assess the potential of Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) transgenes in stem borer control, the toxicity of five Bt protoxins (Cry1Aa, Cry1Ab, Cry1Ac, Cry1Ba and Cry1Ca) against two rice stem borers, Sesamia inferens (pink stem borer) and Chilo suppressalis (striped stem borer), was evaluated in the laboratory by feeding neonate larvae on artificial diets containing Bt protoxins. The results indicated that Cry1Ca exhibited the highest level of toxicity to both stem borers, with an LC(50) of 0.24 and 0.30 microg/g for C. suppressalis and S. inferens, respectively. However, S. inferens was 4-fold lower in susceptibility to Cry1Aa, and 6- and 47-fold less susceptible to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ba, respectively, compared to C. suppressalis. To evaluate interactions among Bt protoxins in stem borer larvae, toxicity assays were performed with mixtures of Cry1Aa/Cry1Ab, Cry1Aa/Cry1Ca, Cry1Ac/Cry1Ca, Cry1Ac/Cry1Ba, Cry1Ab/Cry1Ac, Cry1Ab/Cry1Ba, and Cry1Ab/Cry1Ca at 1:1 (w/w) ratios. All protoxin mixtures demonstrated significant synergistic toxicity activity against C. suppressalis, with values of 1.6- to 11-fold higher toxicity than the theoretical additive effect. Surprisingly, all but one of the Bt protoxin mixtures were antagonistic in toxicity to S. inferens. In mortality-time response experiments, S. inferens demonstrated increased tolerance to Cry1Ab and Cry1Ac compared to C. suppressalis when treated with low or high protoxin concentrations. The data indicate the utility of Cry1Ca protoxin and a Cry1Ac/Cry1Ca mixture to control both stem borer populations.
20452389	Hypoxia is a common characteristic feature of solid tumors, and carcinoma cells are known to secrete many growth factors. These growth factors, such as vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), play a major role in the regulation of tumor angiogenesis and metastasis. In this study, the effect of gamma-tocotrienol, a natural product commonly found in palm oil and rice bran, on the accumulation of HIF-1alpha protein and the paracrine secretion of VEGF in human gastric adenocarcinoma SGC-7901 cell line induced by cobalt(II) chloride (as a hypoxia mimic) was investigated. These results showed that cobalt(II) chloride induced the high expression of VEGF in SGC-7901 cells at dose of 150 micromol/L for 24h. Both basal level and cobalt(II) chloride-induced HIF-1alpha protein accumulation and VEGF paracrine secretion were inhibited in SGC-7901 cells treated with gamma-tocotrienol at 60 micromol/L treatment for 24 h. U0126, a MEK1/2 inhibitor, decreased the expression of HIF-1alpha protein and the paracrine secretion of VEGF under normoxic and hypoxic conditions. In this study, gamma-tocotrienol also significantly inhibited the hypoxia-stimulated expression of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (p-ERK1/2). The mechanism seems to involve in inhibiting hypoxia-mediated activation of p-ERK1/2, it leads to a marked decrease in hypoxia-induced HIF-1alpha protein accumulation and VEGF secretion. These data suggest that HIF-1alpha/VEGF could be a promising target for gamma-tocotrienol in an effective method of chemoprevention and chemotherapy in human gastric cancer.
20453672	It has been reported that a number of children with constipation respond to a diet free of cow's-milk (CM) proteins, although evidence is lacking to support an immunoglobulin E-mediated mechanism. We performed an open-label crossover study comparing CM and rice milk in 69 children who fulfilled Rome III criteria for chronic constipation. Clinical, physical, and immunologic parameters of patients who responded (R) and who did not respond (NR) to a CM-free diet were compared. Thirty-five of the 69 children (51%) improved during the first CM-free diet phase, 8 of these did not develop constipation when CM was reintroduced, and 27 children (39%) developed constipation during the CM challenge and improved during the second CM-free diet phase (R group). Thirty-four children (49%) did not improve during the first CM-free diet phase (NR group). Bowel movements per week among R children significantly increased compared with NR children (R: 2.8-7.7 vs NR: 2.6-2.7) (P < 0.001). Seventy-eight percent of the children with developmental delay responded to the CM-free diet (P = 0.007). No significant statistical difference was found between the R and NR children in terms of fiber and milk consumption; atopic or allergic history; full-blood eosinophil count and percentage, and lymphocyte populations; immunoglobulins, immunoglobulin (Ig)G subclasses, total IgE; and serum-specific immunoglobulin E for CM proteins. A clear association between CM consumption and constipation has been found in more than one third of children. However, analytical parameters do not demonstrate an immunoglobulin E-mediated immunologic mechanism.
20453901	Bacteria from the genus Herbaspirillum are endophytes responsible for nitrogen fixation in gramineous plants of economic importance such as maize, sugarcane, sorghum, rice, and wheat. Some species are known to produce plant growth substances. In contrast, Herbaspirillum rubrisubalbicans strains are known to be mild plant pathogens. The molecular communication between the plant and the microbes might involve lipopolysaccharides present in the outer membrane of these gram-negative bacteria. Phenol-water extraction was used to obtain lipopolysaccharides from 7 strains of Herbaspirillum seropedicae (SmR1, Z67, Z78, ZA95, and M2) and H. rubrisubalbicans (M1 and M4). The electrophoretic profiles and chemical composition of the lipopolysaccharides obtained in the phenol and aqueous extracts were shown herein.
20454202	The total integrated reflectivity of a slightly rough dielectric surface is studied by the Rayleigh-Rice method. Special emphasis is laid on the correct second-order terms of the perturbation expansion; this is important for correlation lengths of the surface structure comparable to the wavelength. The main effects of a surface roughness of this kind are reflection loss, shift of the Brewster angle to smaller values, and slight reddening of the scattered light.
20454772	Asr (ABA, stress, ripening) genes represent a small gene family potentially involved in drought tolerance in several plant species. To analyze their interest for rice breeding for water-limited environments, this gene family was characterized further. Genomic organization of the gene family reveals six members located on four different chromosomes and with the same exon-intron structure. The maintenance of six members of the Asr gene family, which are the result of combination between tandem duplication and whole genome duplication, and their differential regulation under water stress, involves probably some sub-functionalization. The polymorphism of four members was studied in a worldwide collection of 204 accessions of Oryza sativa L. and 14 accessions of wild relatives (O. rufipogon and O. nivara). The nucleotide diversity of the Asr genes was globally low, but contrasted for the different genes, leading to different shapes of haplotype networks. Statistical tests for neutrality were used and compared to their distribution in a set of 111 reference genes spread across the genome, derived from another published study. Asr3 diversity exhibited a pattern concordant with a balancing selection at the species level and with a directional selection in the tropical japonica sub-group. This study provides a thorough description of the organization of the Asr family, and the nucleotide and haplotype diversity of four Asr in Oryza sativa species. Asr3 stood out as the best potential candidate. The polymorphism detected here represents a first step towards an association study between genetic polymorphisms of this gene family and variation in drought tolerance traits.
20455571	Replacing or repairing masonry mortar is usually necessary in the restoration of historical constructions, but the selection of a proper mortar is often problematic. An inappropriate choice can lead to failure of the restoration work, and perhaps even further damage. Thus, a thorough understanding of the original mortar technology and the fabrication of appropriate replacement materials are important research goals. Many kinds of materials have been used over the years in masonry mortars, and the technology has gradually evolved from the single-component mortar of ancient times to hybrid versions containing several ingredients. Beginning in 2450 BCE, lime was used as masonry mortar in Europe. In the Roman era, ground volcanic ash, brick powder, and ceramic chip were added to lime mortar, greatly improving performance. Because of its superior properties, the use of this hydraulic (that is, capable of setting underwater) mortar spread, and it was adopted throughout Europe and western Asia. Perhaps because of the absence of natural materials such as volcanic ash, hydraulic mortar technology was not developed in ancient China. However, a special inorganic-organic composite building material, sticky rice-lime mortar, was developed. This technology was extensively used in important buildings, such as tombs, in urban constructions, and even in water conservancy facilities. It may be the first widespread inorganic-organic composite mortar technology in China, or even in the world. In this Account, we discuss the origins, analysis, performance, and utility in historic preservation of sticky rice-lime mortar. Mortar samples from ancient constructions were analyzed by both chemical methods (including the iodine starch test and the acid attack experiment) and instrumental methods (including thermogravimetric differential scanning calorimetry, X-ray diffraction, Fourier transform infrared, and scanning electron microscopy). These analytical results show that the ancient masonry mortar is a special organic-inorganic composite material. The inorganic component is calcium carbonate, and the organic component is amylopectin, which is presumably derived from the sticky rice soup added to the mortar. A systematic study of sticky rice-lime mortar technology was conducted to help determine the proper courses of action in restoring ancient buildings. Lime mortars with varying sticky rice content were prepared and tested. The physical properties, mechanical strength, and compatibility of lime mortar were found to be significantly improved by the introduction of sticky rice, suggesting that sticky rice-lime mortar is a suitable material for repairing mortar in ancient masonry. Moreover, the amylopectin in the lime mortar was found to act as an inhibitor; the growth of the calcium carbonate crystals is controlled by its presence, and a compact structure results, which may explain the enhanced performance of this organic-inorganic composite compared to single-component lime mortar.
20456051	*The bacterial protein YqeH is a circularly permuted GTPase with homologs encoded by plant nuclear genomes. The rice homolog OsNOA1/RIF1 is encoded by the single-copy gene Os02g01440. OsNOA1/RIF1 is expressed in different tissues and is light-inducible. The OsNOA1/RIF1-EYFP fusion protein was targeted to chloroplasts in transgenic Arabidopsis plants. In addition, the rice homolog was able to rescue most of the growth phenotypes in an Arabidopsis rif1 mutant. *Rice (Oryza sativa) OsNOA1/RIF1 RNAi mutant seedlings were chlorotic with reduced pigment contents and lower photosystem II (PSII) efficiency. However, the expressions of the chloroplast-encoded genes rbcL, atpB, psaA and psbA were not affected. By contrast, reduced abundance of the chloroplast 16S rRNA was observed in the mutant. *Quantitative iTRAQ-LC-MS/MS proteomics investigations revealed proteome changes in the rice mutant consistent with the expected functional role of OsNOA1/RIF1 in chloroplast translation. The RNAi mutant showed significantly decreased expression levels of chloroplast-encoded proteins as well as nuclear-encoded components of chloroplast enzyme complexes. Conversely, upregulation of some classes of nonchloroplastic proteins, such as glycolytic and phenylpropanoid pathway enzymes, was detected. *Our work provides independent indications that a highly conserved nuclear-encoded cGTPase of likely prokaryotic origin is essential for proper chloroplast ribosome assembly and/or translation in plants.
20456502	We extend Bouwer and Rice (1976) slug test theory to incorporate background head trends that may be important in incompressible material of low permeability k. The extension, which features a convolution integral of the background head, is closed form for linear trends. A sensitivity study suggests that a rising background head can diminish the head changes associated with a slug-out test and underestimate k if it is ignored, as does falling background trend with a slug-in test. A falling background head can reinforce slug-in test head change and, if ignored, can overestimate k, as does a rising background head with a slug-out test. The simple extension is verified by field tests in glacial till and stratified drift deposits in eastern Massachusetts.
20457118	Fish-borne zoonotic trematodes, such as Clonorchis sinensis, heterophyids and others, constitute a public health concern in parts of northern Vietnam and infections with these trematodes are often thought to be linked to fish culture. One common fish culture system is the integrated fish-livestock (VAC) ponds where individual households have 1 or more ponds. Fish fry, mainly of various carp species, produced in hatcheries, not necessarily local, are introduced into nursery ponds and after approximately 6 weeks, juvenile fishes are transferred to household ponds, referred to as grow-out ponds. Grow-out ponds are usually fertilized with organic debris, including animal excreta, to stimulate algal growth and subsequently fish growth. This paper describes the distribution of freshwater snails and occurrence of trematode infections in these in VAC ponds and associated habitats as part of a major study on risk factors of FZT infections in cultured fish in two communes, Nghia Lac and Nghia Phu, Nghia Hung District, Nam Dinh Province. The area is under intense rice cultivation with an extensive canal network supplying fields and also household VAC ponds. A total of 16 snail species was found and four were widely distributed i.e. Angulyagra polyzonata, Melanoides tuberculata, Bithynia fuchsiana and Pomacea insularum. Snail diversity and counts were higher in nursery ponds than in grow-out ponds. Species of the families Thiaridae and Viviparidae were more abundant than other species in VAC ponds while species of the Bithyniidae, Stenothyridae and Planorbidae dominated in rice fields and small canals. Trematode infections were found in eight snail species and among these M. tuberculata had the highest overall prevalence of infection (13.28%). No trematode infections were found in species of the Viviparidae and Ampullaridae except for metacercariae. Parapleurolophocercous and pleurolophocercous cercariae constituted the most common type of cercariae recovered, contributing 40.6% of all infections followed by echinostome cercariae (35.0%) and xiphidiocercariae (17.3%). Bithynia fuschiana and M. tuberculata had the most diverse trematode fauna. C. sinensis was not recorded in this study. The VAC pond system in this area, is very important for transmission of minute intestinal trematodes while they play little role in transmission of C. sinensis as its intermediate hosts, bithynid snails, rarely occur in these ponds. From a public health perspective this is positive as the effects of infections with intestinal trematodes are considered mild. On the other hand it is possible that even such subtle effects could have importance in public health as transmission is very intense in the area. And this in combination with the aquaculture importance, reduced marketability of fishes with high metacercariae loads, warrants that control efforts against these trematodes are initiated to reduce transmission in this production system.
20457197	Mucosal delivery of peptide/protein therapeutics via the oral route is a desirable strategy in human immunotherapy. A key step for enhancing the bioavailability of orally administered therapeutics is to protect them from enzymatic digestion in the gastrointestinal tract. Here, we generated transgenic rice seeds accumulating allergen-derived T cell epitopes, a model tolerogen for the control of pollen allergy, in either ER-derived protein body-I (PB-I) or protein storage vacuole protein body-II (PB-II). Compared with PB-II-localized or chemically synthesized forms, PB-I-localized T cell epitopes showed higher resistance to enzymatic digestion in simulated gastric fluid. Moreover, the dose of T cell epitope required for suppression of allergen-specific IgE in mice was about 20-fold lower when fed in PB-I localized form than when unprotected. These findings demonstrate the potential of bioencapsulation in PB-I for broad applications as a viable strategy to achieve efficient mucosal delivery of oral peptide/protein therapeutics.
20457432	Mixed infections caused by different Candida species are the rule rather than the exception. The discrimination between the two closely related species Candida albicans and Candida dubliniensis is not trivial. Therefore, there is a need for fast, reliable, and inexpensive methods with high specificity for the identification and differentiation of these two Candida species, which are frequently detected in the oral cavities of patients with a human immunodeficiency virus infection. We applied several phenotypic identification methods (growth on Rice-agar, Bird-seed agar, CHROMagar Candida, API ID 32C; growth at 42 degrees C and 45 degrees C) and compared them with genotyping by arbitrarily primed-polymerase chain reaction. A sensitivity of 44% for the identification of C. dubliniensis was achieved for growth on Rice-agar, 97% for discrimination on Bird-seed agar, 95% with the assimilation profile index API ID 32C, and 97% when grown at 45 degrees C. We found two API codes not described for C. dubliniensis so far. Additionally, 88% of our C. dubliniensis isolates assimilated palatinose, in contrast to the 1% described in the API reference manual. According to our results, cultivation of Candida isolates on Bird-seed agar after screening on CHROMagar Candida is a very sensitive, simple, and cost-effective method for discriminating C. dubliniensis from C. albicans in routine practice.
20457876	S(1) is the most important locus acting as a reproductive barrier between Oryza sativa and O. glaberrima. It is a complex locus, with factors that may affect male and female fertility separately. Recently, the component causing the allelic elimination of pollen was fine mapped. However, the position and nature of the component causing female sterility remains unknown. To fine map the factor of the S(1) locus affecting female fertility, we developed a mapping approach based on the evaluation of the degree of female transmission ratio distortion (fTRD) of markers. Through implementing this methodology in four O. sativa x O. glaberrima crosses, the female component of the S(1) locus was mapped into a 27.8-kb (O. sativa) and 50.3-kb (O. glaberrima) region included within the interval bearing the male component of the locus. Moreover, evidence of additional factors interacting with S(1) was also found. In light of the available data, a model where incompatibilities in epistatic interactions between S(1) and the additional factors are the cause of the female sterility barrier between O. sativa and O. glaberrima was developed to explain the female sterility and the TRD mediated by S(1). According to our model, the recombination ratio and allelic combinations between these factors would determine the final allelic frequencies observed for a given cross.
2045788	In nature, rice tungro disease is caused by an RNA and a DNA virus complex, but we have obtained an independently infectious clone of rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV) DNA. Infectivity could be demonstrated only when a more than unit-length copy was cloned in the Agrobacterium binary vector Bin 19 and agroinoculated into rice plants. Rice plants thus agroinfected with cloned RTBV DNA showed typical symptoms of tungro disease, presence of viral DNA and bacilliform particles, and could be used as a source of virus to infect healthy plants by the green leafhopper (Nephotettix virescens). The importance of this infectious clone in understanding the molecular biology of RTBV and the rice tungro disease is discussed.
20458293
20459037	To observe the effect of coarse cereals on improving the disorder of lipid metabolism and the expression of PPARgamma mRNA in white adipose tissue in rats to investigate the mechanism of coarse cereals on lipid metabolism disorder. Forty four SPF rats were randomly divided into 4 groups: the negative control group was fed with normal diet and 3 experimental groups were fed with high-fat modeling diet for 6 weeks for model building. The 3 experimental groups, the coarse cereals group,rice-flour group and the hyperlipemia model group, were then fed with coarse cereals high-fat diet,rice-flour high-diet and high-fat modeling diet respectively for another 15 weeks. Compared with the hyperlipemia modeling group, serum TG, TC, IL-6 and TNF-alpha in the coarse cereals group were declined significantly (P < 0.05), serum HDL-C in coarse cereals group was higher than that in rice-flour group and hyperlipemia model group (P < 0.05), LPL, HL and TNF-alpha in coarse cereal group were close to the negative control group. Moreover, the expression of PPAR-gamma mRNA in white adipose tissue of the coarse cereals group was higher than other groups. The coarse cereals could activate PPARgamma and enhance the activity of key enzymes in lipids metabolism, so as to reduce the level of TG relieve inflammation and improve lipid dysmetabolism eventually.
20459318	Plant hormones play pivotal signaling roles in plant-pathogen interactions. Here, we report characterization of an antagonistic interaction of abscisic acid (ABA) with salicylic acid (SA) signaling pathways in the rice-Magnaporthe grisea interaction. Exogenous application of ABA drastically compromised the rice resistance to both compatible and incompatible M. grisea strains, indicating that ABA negatively regulates both basal and resistance gene-mediated blast resistance. ABA markedly suppressed the transcriptional upregulation of WRKY45 and OsNPR1, the two key components of the SA signaling pathway in rice, induced by SA or benzothiadiazole or by blast infection. Overexpression of OsNPR1 or WRKY45 largely negated the enhancement of blast susceptibility by ABA, suggesting that ABA acts upstream of WRKY45 and OsNPR1 in the rice SA pathway. ABA-responsive genes were induced during blast infection in a pattern reciprocal to those of WRKY45 and OsPR1b in the compatible rice-blast interaction but only marginally in the incompatible one. These results suggest that the balance of SA and ABA signaling is an important determinant for the outcome of the rice-M. grisea interaction. ABA was detected in hyphae and conidia of M. grisea as well as in culture media, implying that blast-fungus-derived ABA could play a role in triggering ABA signaling at host infection sites.
20460182	Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi inhabit the root cortical cells of most plants and obtain photosynthates from the host plants while they transfer mineral nutrients from the soil to the hosts. In this review, we first summarize recent progress regarding signal molecules involved in the recognition of each symbiont, the signaling pathways in the host plants, and the characteristics of AM-inducible nutrient transporters, which were elucidated mainly using model legumes. Then, we summarize studies on the colonization by AM fungi of lower plants and of the roots of major crops. There are not only "AM-responsive" crops like maize, sorghum, and soybean but also "AM-nonresponsive" ones like wheat, barley, and rice. Finally, we mention the worldwide problems of limited and biased agricultural resources and discuss future directions as to how we can make use of AM symbiosis for improving crop production and establishing sustainable agriculture.
20460361	The Cys2/His2-type zinc finger proteins have been implicated in different cellular processes involved in plant development and stress responses. Through microarray analysis, a salt-responsive zinc finger protein gene ZFP179 was identified and subsequently cloned from rice seedlings. ZFP179 encodes a 17.95 kDa protein with two C2H2-type zinc finger motifs having transcriptional activation activity. The real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that ZFP179 was highly expressed in immature spikes, and markedly induced in the seedlings by NaCl, PEG 6000, and ABA treatments. Overexpression of ZFP179 in rice increased salt tolerance and the transgenic seedlings showed hypersensitivity to exogenous ABA. The increased levels of free proline and soluble sugars were observed in transgenic plants compared to wild-type plants under salt stress. The ZFP179 transgenic rice exhibited significantly increased tolerance to oxidative stress, the reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging ability, and expression levels of a number of stress-related genes, including OsDREB2A, OsP5CS OsProT, and OsLea3 under salt stress. Our studies suggest that ZFP179 plays a crucial role in the plant response to salt stress, and is useful in developing transgenic crops with enhanced tolerance to salt stress.
20460707	Cytochrome P450s are widespread in the plant kingdom. The functions of plant P450s are dispersed through many aspects of plant metabolisms, which are involved in the biosynthesis of defense compounds and protectants against ultraviolet rays, as well as metabolic pathways for the biosynthesis and/or degradation of fatty acids, hormones, and signaling molecules. We found a gene for rice P450, OsCYP84A, which was classified into CYP84A in the CYP71 clan. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis indicated that this gene was ubiquitously expressed without any temporal and spatial specificity under normal growth conditions, but its expression was inducibly and significantly increased by ultraviolet (UV)-B and UV-C irradiation. Rice transformants in which OsCYP84A expression was suppressed by the antisense gene showed apparent growth retardation with obvious symptoms of damage on the plant bodies under UV-B irradiation, although no phenotypic alteration occurred under normal growth conditions. These results suggest the existence of a novel UV-tolerance system involving OsCYP84A.
20460730	The xylanase B gene encoding a thermostable family 10 xylanase of Clostridium stercorarium was expressed in plants under the control of a constitutive promoter. Two forms of the xylanase B gene, the xynB gene encoding the full length of the xylanase B gene including the bacterial signal sequence and the xynBM gene without the signal sequence region, were introduced into tobacco BY-2 cells and tobacco plants respectively under the control of the cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter. Transgenic BY-2 cells and tobacco plants showed xylanase activity and normal growth. The recombinant enzyme produced in transgenic BY-2 cells harboring the xynB gene was secreted into the culture supernatant, and the recombinant enzyme produced in transgenic BY-2 cells harboring the xynBM gene was localized in the cells. In contrast to tobacco plants, expression of the xynB gene under the control of the rice actin promoter in rice plants was toxic to host cells. However, the recombinant XynBM accumulated in leaf cells, and no phenotypic effect of expression of the xynBM gene was observed. Enzyme activity was maintained in cell-free extracts of transgenic rice leaves at 60 degrees C for 72 h, and the recombinant XynBM degraded hemicellulosic polymers in cell-free extracts of transgenic rice leaves.
20461160	Ribulose-1, 5- Bisphosphate carboxylase/ oxygenase (RubisCO) catalyzes the first step in net photosynthetic assimilation and photorespiratory carbon oxidation. The activity of this enzyme is modulated in response to changes in light intensity as suggested in a number of early reports. Several studies found that the natural inhibitor 2CA1P is involved in the inhibition of the enzyme under reduced light intensity in rice (Oryza sativa). Due to the lack of studies and information on the interaction between this inhibitor and the active site of the enzyme, we attempted to predict the interaction between the amino acids in the active site and the inhibitor using both Hyperchem7.5 and GOLD software. After the docking; three possibilities having the highest fitness score were found (65.71, 64.72, 62.04), in these possibilities the inhibitor was bound to the enzyme, the phosphate and carboxylate groups in the same positions with a clear difference in the position of OH. In order to confirm the accuracy of the genetic algorithm, the artificial inhibitor 2CABP was docked back in the active site of the enzyme using the same parameters used in the case of the 2CA1P and the algorithm's predictions were compared with the experimentally observed binding mode. The results showed that the difference in the active sites before and after the docking was in the range of 0.93 A which indicated that the results were very accurate. Depending on this result it was concluded that the results obtained in the case of the 2CA1P were close to the experimental results.
20461588	1. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of different sources of dietary non-starch polysaccharides (NSP) on growth performance, development of gastrointestinal tract, and activities of pancreatic enzymes in goslings from 0 to 21 d of age. 2. A total of 100 one-day-old White Roman female goslings were selected and randomly divided into 5 dietary treatment groups. Each group had 4 replicate cages (100 x 60 x 58 cm) of 5 goslings. Goslings in each group were given one of 5 isoenergetic and isonitrogenous semi-purified diets. Experimental diets were designed to contain 90 g/kg of different sources of dietary NSP from maize (control), barley hull, rice bran, wheat bran, or pectin, respectively, and 97.4 g/kg NSP were supplied by soybean meal. 3. The goslings receiving the pectin diet had significantly higher viscosity in intestinal digesta than the other treatment diets. However, the daily feed intake, daily weight gain, and feed conversion ratio of goslings in the pectin group were significantly lower than those given the other diets. 4. The relative weights of proventriculus, gizzard, liver and pancreas, as well as the relative weights and lengths of various intestinal segments in the goslings that received the pectin diet, were significantly higher than those receiving the other diets. The specific activities (SA) of amylase, lipase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin in the pancreatic tissue of goslings in the pectin group were significantly lower than those in the other groups. 5. Goslings given a soluble NSP source (pectin) diet tended to exhibit inhibited growth and decreased activity of pancreatic enzymes. However, compared with maize, the inclusion of insoluble NSP sources from barley hull, rice bran, and wheat bran did not negatively affect growth and also were not significantly different among the treatment diets.
20462002	Two experimental glass-houses were utilized to study the effects of nighttime temperature increase (NTI) at different growth stages on the grain yield of double season rice. The NTI from the stage of sowing to panicle differentiation (primary branch differentiation) improved the tillering of rice, and increased the effective panicles. An average 1 degrees C rise in the minimum nighttime temperature (MNT) at this stage increased the grain yield of early and late rice by 10.02% - 13.18% and 6.52% - 7.78% (P < 0.01), respectively. The NTI from the stage of panicle differentiation to heading (10% panicle heading from flag leaf sheath) promoted the spikelet abortion, and reduced the number of developed spikelet. An average 1 degrees C rise in MNT at this stage decreased the grain yield of early and late rice by 3.76% - 6.67% and 3.66% - 6.94% (P < 0.01), respectively. NTI from the stage of heading to maturity decreased the filled grain rate of early rice remarkably, but had an opposite effect on late rice. An average 1 degrees C rise in MNT at this stage induced a grain yield loss by 2.07% - 5.61% (P < 0.05) and a grain yield gain by 1.63% - 2.28% (P < 0.05) for early and late rice, respectively. All the results illustrated that there existed obvious differences in the effects of NTI at different growth stages on the grain yield of double season rice.
20462006	By analyzing and extracting the quantitative relationships of suitable nitrogen index dynamics of rice and wheat to their cultivar types, cultural techniques, and eco-environments, a design model for the suitable nitrogen index dynamics of rice and wheat was developed. The model was driven by the physiological development time-based relative growing degree days, with the relative nitrogen indices as modeling parameters, and could be used to generate the time-course indices such as the nitrogen accumulation and concentration of rice and wheat under different growth conditions. Case studies with the datasets from 3-year field experiments in Nanjing showed that the average RMSEs of the simulated to measured plant nitrogen accumulation and concentration were 0.1245 and 0.1316 for rice, and 0.1166 and 0.1301 for wheat, respectively. It was suggested that this model could reliably guide the dynamics of major nitrogen indices of rice and wheat, which would help with the quantitative nitrogen diagnosis and precision nitrogen management of rice and wheat under different eco-environments, cultivar types, and production conditions.
20462456	The small brown planthopper (Laodelphax striatellus) is an important agricultural pest that not only damages rice plants by sap-sucking, but also acts as a vector that transmits rice stripe virus (RSV), which can cause even more serious yield loss. Despite being a model organism for studying entomology, population biology, plant protection, molecular interactions among plants, viruses and insects, only a few genomic sequences are available for this species. To investigate its transcriptome and determine the differences between viruliferous and naïve L. striatellus, we employed 454-FLX high-throughput pyrosequencing to generate EST databases of this insect. We obtained 201,281 and 218,681 high-quality reads from viruliferous and naïve L. striatellus, respectively, with an average read length as 230 bp. These reads were assembled into contigs and two EST databases were generated. When all reads were combined, 16,885 contigs and 24,607 singletons (a total of 41,492 unigenes) were obtained, which represents a transcriptome of the insect. BlastX search against the NCBI-NR database revealed that only 6,873 (16.6%) of these unigenes have significant matches. Comparison of the distribution of GO classification among viruliferous, naïve, and combined EST databases indicated that these libraries are broadly representative of the L. striatellus transcriptomes. Functionally diverse transcripts from RSV, endosymbiotic bacteria Wolbachia and yeast-like symbiotes were identified, which reflects the possible lifestyles of these microbial symbionts that live in the cells of the host insect. Comparative genomic analysis revealed that L. striatellus encodes similar innate immunity regulatory systems as other insects, such as RNA interference, JAK/STAT and partial Imd cascades, which might be involved in defense against viral infection. In addition, we determined the differences in gene expression between vector and naïve samples, which generated a list of candidate genes that are potentially involved in the symbiosis of L. striatellus and RSV. To our knowledge, the present study is the first description of a genomic project for L. striatellus. The identification of transcripts from RSV, Wolbachia, yeast-like symbiotes and genes abundantly expressed in viruliferous insect, provided a starting-point for investigating the molecular basis of symbiosis among these organisms.
20462944	In angiosperms, a zygote generally divides into a two-celled proembryo consisting of an apical and a basal cell that possess different cell fates. This first division of the zygote is a putative step in the formation of the apical-basal axis of the proembryo. The gamete fusion activates the egg, and the gamete fusion site on the zygote has been reported to provide a possible cue for subsequent zygotic development and/or embryonic patterning in animals and plants. In this study, the gamete fusion site on the rice zygote was labelled by in vitro fertilization of a rice egg cell with a fluorescence-stained sperm cell. The positional relationship between the gamete fusion site and the division plane formed by zygotic cleavage was monitored using a fixed culture of the fusion site-labelled zygote until the two-celled proembryo stage. The results indicate that gamete fusion sites exist on two-celled proembryos with no relation to the position of the first division plane, and that the gamete fusion site on the rice zygote does not function as a determinant for positioning the zygote division plane.
20463769	The Mediterranean diet is considered to be a prototype of a healthy diet. The modernization of society implies sociological and cultural changes that affect feeding preferences and habits. The aim of this paper is to determine the quality index of the dietary habits in pupils of compulsory secondary education (CSE). By distributing a 16 item questionnaire (kidmed test) to a random sample of 1,956 pupils of CSE (966 males and 990 females). The final score or kidmed index (range 0-12) indicates whether the degree of adherence to the Mediterranean diet is low (0-3), medium (4-7) or high (8-12). A low kidmed index value was registered in 6.7% of the pupils of CSE, whereas medium values corresponded to 50.4% and low values to 42.9%, showing no significant statistical differences between the sexes. The kidmed index decreases progressively with age (p<0.05). At age 13 (first year of CSE), 49.5% of the pupils had an optimal score on the kidmed index, whereas at 16 (fourth year of CSE), this score reached 37.2%. There were statistical differences (p<0.05) regarding consumption of fruit, fish, nuts and dried foods, sweets and factory produced baked foodstuffs; pupils also frequently went without breakfast and ate at fast food restaurants. By the end of CSE, 62.8% of pupils showed a low-medium degree of adherence to the Mediterranean diet. Applicable food advice for these adolescents would be to increase consumption of fruit, vegetables, nuts, pasta and rice, yogurt and cheese, pulses and fish; and to reduce consumption of factory produced baked foodstuffs and sweets and to eat less at fast food restaurants; besides insisting on the importance of daily breakfast and the use olive oil for cooking. In addition, it would be convenient to develop nutrition education programs during compulsory education.
20463817	Cyclic AMP-dependent pathways mediate the communication between external stimuli and the intracellular signaling machinery, thereby influencing important aspects of cellular growth, morphogenesis and differentiation. Crucial to proper function and robustness of these signaling cascades is the strict regulation and maintenance of intracellular levels of cAMP through a fine balance between biosynthesis (by adenylate cyclases) and hydrolysis (by cAMP phosphodiesterases). We functionally characterized gene-deletion mutants of a high-affinity (PdeH) and a low-affinity (PdeL) cAMP phosphodiesterase in order to gain insights into the spatial and temporal regulation of cAMP signaling in the rice-blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. In contrast to the expendable PdeL function, the PdeH activity was found to be a key regulator of asexual and pathogenic development in M. oryzae. Loss of PdeH led to increased accumulation of intracellular cAMP during vegetative and infectious growth. Furthermore, the pdeHDelta showed enhanced conidiation (2-3 fold), precocious appressorial development, loss of surface dependency during pathogenesis, and highly reduced in planta growth and host colonization. A pdeHDelta pdeLDelta mutant showed reduced conidiation, exhibited dramatically increased (approximately 10 fold) cAMP levels relative to the wild type, and was completely defective in virulence. Exogenous addition of 8-Br-cAMP to the wild type simulated the pdeHDelta defects in conidiation as well as in planta growth and development. While a fully functional GFP-PdeH was cytosolic but associated dynamically with the plasma membrane and vesicular compartments, the GFP-PdeL localized predominantly to the nucleus. Based on data from cAMP measurements and Real-Time RTPCR, we uncover a PdeH-dependent biphasic regulation of cAMP levels during early and late stages of appressorial development in M. oryzae. We propose that PdeH-mediated sustenance and dynamic regulation of cAMP signaling during M. oryzae development is crucial for successful establishment and spread of the blast disease in rice.
20464153	Cryptococcus neoformans is an encapsulated yeast and is the etiological agent for human and animal cryptococcosis. It is found in sources within the environment, including pigeon excrement, and is an important cause of mortality among immunocompromised individuals worldwide. Seventy different environments in the city of Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, were surveyed for the purpose of investigating Cryptococcus neoformans occurrences in pigeon excreta. The environments included buildings, public squares and outdoor locations in the city. After collection, chloramphenicol saline solution was added to the excreta, which were then homogenized and seeded onto Sabouraud agar with chloramphenicol and onto Niger agar, and incubated at 32 degrees C. Identification was performed by direct examination and by means of the phenoloxidase and urease tests, carbohydrate assimilation and culturing in CGB medium. Out of the sites investigated (n = 70), 26 (37.1%) of them contained pigeon excreta. These included historical buildings (n = 8), a church tower (n = 1), rice mills and warehouses (n = 7), a public square (n = 1) and outdoor locations (n = 9). Cryptococcus neoformans was isolated from 26.9% (n = 7/26) of these locations. This study draws attention to isolation of this fungus in urban areas that present large accumulations of pigeon excrement. This represents a risk to public health, especially for immunocompromised individuals.
20464438	The barley mutant allele sdw3 confers a gibberellin-insensitive, semi-dwarf phenotype with potential for breeding of new semi-dwarfed barley cultivars. Towards map-based cloning, sdw3 was delimited by high-resolution genetic mapping to a 0.04 cM interval in a "cold spot" of recombination of the proximal region of the short arm of barley chromosome 2H. Extensive synteny between the barley Sdw3 locus (Hvu_sdw3) and the orthologous regions (Osa_sdw3, Sbi_sdw3, Bsy_sdw3) of three other grass species (Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor, Brachypodium sylvaticum) allowed for efficient synteny-based marker saturation in the target interval. Comparative sequence analysis revealed colinearity for 23 out of the 38, 35, and 29 genes identified in Brachypodium, rice, and Sorghum, respectively. Markers co-segregating with Hvu_sdw3 were generated from two of these genes. Initial attempts at chromosome walking in barley were performed with seven orthologous gene probes which were delimiting physical distances of 223, 123, and 127 kb in Brachypodium, rice, and Sorghum, respectively. Six non-overlapping small bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clone contigs (cumulative length of 670 kb) were obtained, which indicated a considerably larger physical size of Hvu_sdw3. Low-pass sequencing of selected BAC clones from these barley contigs exhibited a substantially lower gene frequency per physical distance and the presence of additional non-colinear genes. Four candidate genes for sdw3 were identified within barley BAC sequences that either co-segregated with the gene sdw3 or were located adjacent to these co-segregating genes. Identification of genic sequences in the sdw3 context provides tools for marker-assisted selection. Eventual identification of the actual gene will contribute new information for a basic understanding of the mechanisms underlying growth regulation in barley.
20465413	Lumazine synthase (LS) catalyzes the penultimate reaction in the multistep riboflavin biosynthesis pathway, which is involved in plant defenses. Plant defenses are often subject to synergistic effects of jasmonic acid and ethylene whereas LS is a regulator of jasmonic acid signal transduction. However, little is known about whether the enzyme contributes to defense responses. To study the role of LS in plant pathogen defenses, we generated transgenic tobacco expressing the rice (Oryza sativa) LS gene, OsLS. OsLS was cloned and found to have strong identity with its homologues in higher plants and less homology to microbial orthologues. The OsLS protein localized to chloroplasts in three OsLS-expressing transgenic tobacco (LSETT) lines characterized as enhanced in growth and defense. Compared with control plants, LSETT had higher content of both riboflavin and the cofactors flavin mononucleotide and flavin adenine dinucleotide. In LSETT, jasmonic acid and ethylene were elevated, the expression of defense-related genes was induced, levels of resistance to pathogens were enhanced, and resistance was effective to viral, bacterial, and oomycete pathogens. Extents of OsLS expression correlated with increases in flavin, jasmonic acid, and ethylene content, and correlated with increases in resistance levels, suggesting a role for OsLS in defense responses.
20465417	We analyzed the avirulence gene AVR-Pita1 in Japanese rice blast isolates to determine how they gain virulence toward rice cultivars containing the Pita resistance gene. An avirulent isolate, OS99-G-7a (G7a), from a Japanese commercial field contained two paralogs of AVR-Pita1, designated as AVR-Pita1(JA) and AVR-Pita1(JB). Analysis of virulent, independent mutants derived from G7a, a single avirulent progenitor strain, indicated that AVR-Pita1(JA) was functional but AVR-Pita1(JB) was nonfunctional. The most frequent mutation was loss of AVR-Pita1(JA). Analyses of field isolates collected from diverse areas in Japan revealed that most of the AVR-Pita1 genes carried by Japanese isolates were identical to AVR-Pita1(JA) or AVR-Pita1(JB). The relationship between these major paralogs in Japanese isolates and the virulence of the strains carrying them indicate that AVR-Pita1(JA) is functional but AVR-Pita1(JB) is not, as is the case in G7a. Isolates that show virulence toward rice cultivars containing the Pita gene are presumed to have evolved virulence from avirulent origins via loss of AVR-Pita1(JA), except for one case in which virulence resulted from a base substitution. In this study, we discuss the properties and specificities of Japanese rice blasts that relate to virulence against Pita-containing rice. Furthermore, we present a method to amplify AVR-Pita1(JA) and AVR-Pita1(JB) separately and, specifically, to monitor functional AVR-Pita1 in Japan.
20465715	Two experiments were conducted to study the effects of extrusion of Chinese storage brown rice and of exogenous enzymes supplementation to diets containing Chinese storage brown rice on the carbohydrase activity in digestive tract of piglets. In Experiment 1, 96 weaned piglets [initially 6.95 +/- 0.05 kg body weight (BW)] were used in a 2 x 2 factorial design, the animals were fed the diets containing extruded Chinese storage brown rice or non-treated Chinese storage brown rice and supplemented with or without exogenous enzymes. Each treatment had six replicate pens and four piglets in each pen. The results demonstrated that extrusion significantly increased (p < 0.05) the activity of duodenal maltase after 14 days of treatment and glucoamylase after 28 days of treatment, jejunal lactase, maltase, isomaltase, sucrase and alpha-amylase after 28 days of treatment, and jejunal alpha-amylase after 14 days of treatment; enzyme supplementation positively influenced (p < 0.05) the activity of pancreatic alpha-amylase after 14 and 28 days of treatment, pancreatic glucoamylase after 28 days of treatment and ileal trehalase after 14 days of treatment. Similarly, interaction between extrusion and enzyme addition existed after 14 days of treatment on the activity of pancreatic alpha-amylase and duodenal maltase and on the activity of duodenal glucoamylase and isomaltase, jejunal alpha-amylase, lactase, maltase, isomaltase and jejunal alpha-amylase after 28 days of treatment. In Experiment 2, six piglets (initially 21 +/- 1.85 kg BW) fitted with ileal 'T'-cannulas in a 6 x 6 Latin Square Design were used to study the effects of extrusion and addition of exogenous enzymes on ileal carbohydrase activity and nutrients digestibility. The results showed that exogenous enzymes significantly (p < 0.05) increased ileal alpha-amylase, glucoamylase and trehalase activity. The interaction between extrusion and enzyme supplementation had positive effect (p < 0.05) on the ileal lactase, cellobiase and sucrase activity.
20466045	Cadmium is one of the most troublesome toxic heavy metals. It accumulates in the water reservoirs and agricultural soil as a result of intensive use of Cd contaminated phosphate fertilizers, e.g. in agriculture in the North Central Province (NCP) of Sri Lanka. The hyper-accumulator Thlaspi caerulescens, accumulates up to 1000 ppm Cd in shoots without exhibiting toxicity symptoms. The storage rhizomes of year old Nelumbo nucifera (lotus) natural vegetation in water reservoirs in NCP accumulated 253+/-12 mg Cd/kg. Seedlings of lotus grown in 5% Hoagland's solution at 0.75, 1.0 and 1.25 ppm cadmium sulphate showed a significant increase in Cd removal of 0.0334-0.121 ppm/week. However the removal rate of Cd from water failed to increase any further at higher concentrations of Cd in water. The slow growth rate and low rate of phytoextraction demands a more effective but an affordable method of remediation in order to combat the prevailing elevated cadmium levels in NCP that causes chronic renal failure (CRF). We have developed a large scale filtering device using rice husk. We have achieved successful results in sequestering Cd using raw rice husk as well as amorphous silica derived from rice husk.
20466048	Chronic cadmium exposure is associated with many adverse health effects in adults, but little is known about the scenario early in life. This study assessed cadmium exposure and body burden in young children, born to women with known cadmium exposure via rice. As part of our ongoing population-based, longitudinal study of health effects of early-life toxicants exposure in rural Bangladesh, we measured cadmium in urine of about 350 children at 1.5 and 5 years of age, and in 92 children at 3 months of age. Median cadmium concentrations in urine were 0.30, 0.16 and 0.30 microg/L at 3 months, 1.5 and 5 years of age, respectively (0.6 microg/L in mothers). Cadmium concentrations in infant's urine correlated with concentrations in maternal breast milk, saliva, and urine. As expected, concentrations in urine increased from 1.5 to 5 years of age. Rice (median 47 microgCd/kg) is most likely the main source of exposure. In conclusion, we found unexpectedly high cadmium exposure among children in rural Bangladesh. Urinary cadmium concentrations were particularly elevated at 3 months of age, indicating limited reabsorption and accumulation of cadmium in the kidneys, known to be the main site of cadmium burden in older children and adults.
20466540	Pretreatment technology is a prerequisite to facilitate the release of sugars from a lignocellulosic biomass prior to fermentation. Recently, some pretreatment methods have been tried with ionic liquids, but they were still expensive and unpractical. In this study, an efficient pretreatment method using ammonia and ionic liquid was developed for the recovery of bio-digestible cellulose from a lignocellulosic byproduct, rice straw, and the increase of ionic liquid utilization. The combined use of ammonia and ionic liquid ([Emim]Ac) treatment exhibited a synergy effect for rice straw with 82% of the cellulose recovery and 97% of the enzymatic glucose conversion. This cooperative effect showed over 90% of the glucose conversion even with a reduced enzyme usage and incubation time. The ionic liquid was successfully recycled more than 20 times. The 20th-recycled ([Emim]Ac) showed 74% of the cellulose recovery and 78% of the glucose conversion to rice straw. Compared with the conventional pretreatment, our combined method for lignocellulosic biomass pretreatment was an economical and eco-friendly.
20466843	Knowledge of phosphorylation events and their regulation is crucial to understand the functional biology of plants. Here, we report a large-scale phosphoproteome analysis in the model monocot rice (Oryza sativa japonica 'Nipponbare'), an economically important crop. Using unfractionated whole-cell lysates of rice cells, we identified 6,919 phosphopeptides from 3,393 proteins. To investigate the conservation of phosphoproteomes between plant species, we developed a novel phosphorylation-site evaluation method and performed a comparative analysis of rice and Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). The ratio of tyrosine phosphorylation in the phosphoresidues of rice was equivalent to those in Arabidopsis and human. Furthermore, despite the phylogenetic distance and the use of different cell types, more than 50% of the phosphoproteins identified in rice and Arabidopsis, which possessed ortholog(s), had an orthologous phosphoprotein in the other species. Moreover, nearly half of the phosphorylated orthologous pairs were phosphorylated at equivalent sites. Further comparative analyses against the Medicago phosphoproteome also showed similar results. These data provide direct evidence for conserved regulatory mechanisms based on phosphorylation in plants. We also assessed the phosphorylation sites on nucleotide-binding leucine-rich repeat proteins and identified novel conserved phosphorylation sites that may regulate this class of proteins.
20467244	A selected fungal strain, for production of the raw-starchdigesting enzyme by solid-state fermentation, was improved by two repeated sequential exposures to gamma-irradiation of Co60, ultraviolet, and four repeated treatments with Nmethyl- N'-nitrosoguanidine. The mutant strain Aspergillus sp. XN15 was chosen after a rigorous screening process, with its production of the raw-starch-digesting enzyme being twice that of usual wild varieties cultured under preoptimized conditions and in an unsupplemented medium. After 17 successive subculturings, the enzyme production of the mutant was stable. Optimal conditions for the production of the enzyme by solid-state fermentation, using wheat bran as the substrate, were accomplished for the mutant Aspergillus sp. XN15. With the optimal fermentation conditions, and a solid medium supplemented with nitrogen sources of 1% urea and 1% NH4NO3, 2.5 mM CoSO4, 0.05% (v/w) Tween 80, and 1% glucose, the mutant Aspergillus sp. XN15 produced the raw-starch-digesting enzyme in quantities 19.4 times greater than a typical wild variety. Finally, XN15, through simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of a raw rice corn starch slurry, produced a high level of ethanol with Yp/s of 0.47 g/g.
20467250	An efficient and simple fermentation process was developed for the production of gamma-amminobutyric acid (GABA) by Lactobacillus sakei B2-16. When the L. sakei B2-16 was cultivated in the rice bran extracts medium containing 4% sucrose, 1% yeast extract and 12% monosodium glutamate, the maximum GABA concentration reached 660.0 mM with 100% conversion yield, showing the 2.4-fold higher GABA concentration compared to the modified MRS medium without the rice bran extracts. The GABA production was scaled-up from a laboratory scale (5 L) to a pilot (300 L) and a plant scales (5,000 L) to investigate the application possibility of GABA production to industrial fields. The GABA production at the pilot and plant scales was similar to the laboratory scale using rice bran extracts medium which could be effective for the low-cost production of GABA.
20470436	The third, or wobble, position in a codon provides a high degree of possible degeneracy and is an elegant fault-tolerance mechanism. Nucleotide biases between organisms at the wobble position have been documented and correlated with the abundances of the complementary tRNAs. We and others have noticed a bias for cytosine and guanine at the third position in a subset of transcripts within a single organism. The bias is present in some plant species and warm-blooded vertebrates but not in all plants, or in invertebrates or cold-blooded vertebrates. Here we demonstrate that in certain organisms the amount of GC at the wobble position (GC3) can be used to distinguish two classes of genes. We highlight the following features of genes with high GC3 content: they (1) provide more targets for methylation, (2) exhibit more variable expression, (3) more frequently possess upstream TATA boxes, (4) are predominant in certain classes of genes (e.g., stress responsive genes) and (5) have a GC3 content that increases from 5'to 3'. These observations led us to formulate a hypothesis to explain GC3 bimodality in grasses. Our findings suggest that high levels of GC3 typify a class of genes whose expression is regulated through DNA methylation or are a legacy of accelerated evolution through gene conversion. We discuss the three most probable explanations for GC3 bimodality: biased gene conversion, transcriptional and translational advantage and gene methylation.
20472451	We used in this study Compton suppression method and epithermal neutron activation analysis to determine the concentration of nutrients and heavy metals in Nigerian food and beverages. The work was performed at the University of Texas TRIGA Reactor by short, medium, and long irradiation protocols, using thermal flux of 1.4x10(12)n cm(-2)s(-1) and epithermal flux of 1.4x10(11)n cm(-2)s(-1). Application of Compton suppression method has reduced interferences from Compton scattered photons thereby allowing easy evaluation of Na, Cl, Ca, Cu, Mn, Mg, Co, Cr, Rb, Fe, and Se. The epithermal NAA method has enabled determination of Cd, As, Ba, Sr, Br, I, and V with little turn-around time. Quality Control and Quality Assurance of the method was tested by analyzing four Standard Reference Materials (non-fat powdered milk, apple leaves, citrus leaves, and peach leaves) obtained from National Institute for Standards and Technology. Our results show that sorghum, millet, and maize have high values of Zn, Mn, Fe, low values of Cd, As, and Se. Powdered milks, rice, beans, and soybeans were found to have moderate amounts of all the elements. Tobacco recorded high content of Cd, Mn, and As, whereas tea, tsobo leaves, Baobab leaves, and okro seed have more As values than others. However, biscuits, macaroni, spaghetti, and noodles show lower concentrations of all the elements. The distribution of these nutrients and heavy metals in these food and beverages shows the need to fortify biscuits and pastas with micro and macro-nutrients and reduce the use of tobacco, tea, tsobo leaves, Baobab leaves, and Okro seed to avoid intake of heavy elements.
20472577	Effects of salt stress on polyamine metabolism and ethylene production were examined in two rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivars [I Kong Pao (IKP), salt sensitive; and Pokkali, salt resistant] grown for 5 d and 12 d in nutrient solution in the presence or absence of putrescine (1 mM) and 0, 50, and 100 mM NaCl. The salt-sensitive (IKP) and salt-resistant (Pokkali) cultivars differ not only in their mean levels of putrescine, but also in the physiological functions assumed by this molecule in stressed tissues. Salt stress increased the proportion of conjugated putrescine in salt-resistant Pokkali and decreased it in the salt-sensitive IKP, suggesting a possible protective function in response to NaCl. Activities of the enzymes ornithine decarboxylase (ODC; EC 4.1.1.17) and arginine decarboxylase (ADC; EC 4.1.1.19) involved in putrescine synthesis were higher in salt-resistant Pokkali than in salt-sensitive IKP. Both enzymes were involved in the response to salt stress. Salt stress also increased diamine oxidase (DAO; 1.4.3.6) and polyamine oxidase (PAO EC 1.5.3.11) activities in the roots of salt-resistant Pokkali and in the shoots of salt-sensitive IKP. Gene expression followed by reverse transcription-PCR suggested that putrescine could have a post-translational impact on genes coding for ADC (ADCa) and ODC (ODCa and ODCb) but could induce a transcriptional activation of genes coding for PAO (PAOb) mainly in the shoot of salt-stressed plants. The salt-resistant cultivar Pokkali produced higher amounts of ethylene than the salt-sensitive cultivar IKP, and exogenous putrescine increased ethylene synthesis in both cultivars, suggesting no direct antagonism between polyamine and ethylene pathways in rice.
20472752	Basic helix-loop-helix proteins (bHLHs) are found throughout the three eukaryotic kingdoms and constitute one of the largest families of transcription factors. A growing number of bHLH proteins have been functionally characterized in plants. However, some of these have not been previously classified. We present here an updated and comprehensive classification of the bHLHs encoded by the whole sequenced genomes of Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), Populus trichocarpa, Oryza sativa, Physcomitrella patens, and five algae species. We define a plant bHLH consensus motif, which allowed the identification of novel highly diverged atypical bHLHs. Using yeast two-hybrid assays, we confirm that (1) a highly diverged bHLH has retained protein interaction activity and (2) the two most conserved positions in the consensus play an essential role in dimerization. Phylogenetic analysis permitted classification of the 638 bHLH genes identified into 32 subfamilies. Evolutionary and functional relationships within subfamilies are supported by intron patterns, predicted DNA-binding motifs, and the architecture of conserved protein motifs. Our analyses reveal the origin and evolutionary diversification of plant bHLHs through differential expansions, domain shuffling, and extensive sequence divergence. At the functional level, this would translate into different subfamilies evolving specific DNA-binding and protein interaction activities as well as differential transcriptional regulatory roles. Our results suggest a role for bHLH proteins in generating plant phenotypic diversity and provide a solid framework for further investigations into the role carried out in the transcriptional regulation of key growth and developmental processes.
20473653	Protein content (PC) is an important component of rice nutritional quality. In order to better understand the genetic basis of this trait and increase related breeding efficiency, 21 single chromosome segment substitution (SCSS) lines grown in four sites over two growing seasons (regarded as eight environments) were used to associate PC with particular chromosome segments. Segments from 15 chromosomes were found to contain quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for PC in at least one environment. These included segments from chromosome 3 and 8, in which QTLs for PC had not previously been identified. The segment of chromosome 8 in CSSL-48 had the largest positive effect across all environments. The interaction between substitution and environment was highly significant. Some substitutions had large effects in one environment, but no effect in another (i.e. CSSL-08 and CSSL-17), while some substitutions significantly increased PC in one environment but decreased it in another (i.e. CSSL-41 and CSSL-43). By biplot and clustering analysis, the eight environments were grouped into two contrasting environment types, that is, Hainan and Jiangsu. The segment of chromosome 8 in CSSL-48 had PC-enhancing QTLs in both of the environment types. The segments in CSSL-34 had QTLs which increase PC in the Jiangsu environment but have no effect in the Hainan environment. For enhancing PC, CSSL-48 could be explored in breeding for wide adaptation across all environments, while CSSL-12, CSSL-14, CSSL-17, CSSL-41 and CSSL-43, and that in CSSL-34 could be explored in breeding for specific adaptation to the Hainan and Jiangsu environments, respectively. Near isogenic lines are under development to validate the QTLs with large effects in a range of genetic backgrounds relevant to Jiangsu and Hainan breeding programs. Secondary mapping populations are also being developed for further localising the responsible QTLs in CSSL-14, CSSL-34 and CSSL-48.
20473958	Diazotrophs diversity in soybean is a topic requiring thorough investigation since the previous researches have focused on only rice, forest, grass, water, etc. In this research, iron-only nitrogenase nifH gene was as genetic marker. PCR-RFLP was used to investigate the difference of diazotrophs community diversity in the soil from the continuous cropping (CC) (the 5-yr tilling of soybean) and the rotational cropping (RC) (soybean-corn) soils in the northeast of China. A total of 36 isolates were genetically characterized. Most of the isolates closely related to Azospirillum and Azotobacter. Eighty-six unique nifH gene sequences were obtained by cloning of the respective PCR products in two soil samples. It was found that the diversity of nifH genes in CC changed obviously compared with RC. Phylogenetic analysis indicated that most of the clones clustered together in a high homogeneity with some sequence retrieved from environmental representatives. The sequence diversity of nifH genes was high and the members of the Alphaproteobacteria were predominant in both samples. The experimental study also revealed the two non-proteobacterial diazotrophs, firmicutes and euryarchaeota. Through this study, it can be assumed that different tillage perhaps affected the nifH gene-containing population diversity.
20474501
20474562
20474582
20475128
20476782	Mercury (Hg) bioaccumulation in aquatic food webs has been much studied, motivated from high Hg levels found in many fish species important for human consumption. Hg bioaccumulation in terrestrial food chains have received little attention and assumed to be of minor importance. However, recent studies showed that rice can be an important pathway of methylmercury (MeHg) exposure to inhabitants in Hg mining areas in China. In this study, 59 sampling sites (including 32 sites from "heavily polluted area", 19 from "less-impacted area" and 8 from "control sites") were selected in a Hg mining area in China and both inorganic Hg (IHg) and MeHg were determined in rice grain (brown rice) and soil samples to evaluate Hg bioaccumulation in rice grain. Bio-Accumulation Factors (BAFs) for IHg ranged from 0.00014 to 0.51 and from 0.71 to 50 for MeHg. BAFs for MeHg were on average more than 800 times higher than those for IHg (maximum: 40,000 times). This study, for the first time, showed that rice grain is an intensive bioaccumulator of MeHg, but not of IHg, which may be trapped by the roots.
20478420	Micronutrients are essential for a healthy life. Humans do not produce micronutrients, and hence they must obtain them through the foodchain. Staple crops are the predominant food source of mankind, but need to be complemented by other foodstuffs because they are generally deficient in one or the other micronutrient. Breeding for micronutrient-dense crops is not always a viable option because of the absence of genetic variability for the desired trait. Moreover, sterility issues and the complex genetic makeup of some crop plants make them unamenable to conventional breeding. In these cases, genetic modification remains the only viable option. The tools to produce a number of micronutrients in staple crops have recently become available thanks to the identification of the genes involved in the corresponding biochemical pathways at an unprecedented rate. Discarding genetic modification as a viable option is definitely not in the interest of human wellbeing.
20478538	The nucleotide-binding domain and leucine-rich repeat-containing (NLR) family proteins recognize pathogen-derived molecules and trigger immune responses in both plants and animals. In plants, the direct or indirect recognition of specific pathogen effectors by NLRs culminates in a hypersensitive response (HR) and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), key components of the plant defense response. However, the molecules activated by NLRs and how they induce immune responses are largely unknown. We found that the rice GTPase OsRac1 at the plasma membrane interacts directly with Pit, an NLR protein that confers resistance to the rice blast fungus. OsRac1 contributes to Pit-mediated ROS production as well as the HR and is required for Pit-mediated disease resistance in rice. Furthermore, the active form of Pit induces the activation of OsRac1 at the plasma membrane. Thus, OsRac1 is activated by Pit during pathogen attack and plays a critical role in Pit-mediated immunity in rice.
20478969	Ribulose-1, 5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) activase (RCA) in the thylakoid membrane (TM) has been shown to play a role in protection and regulation of photosynthesis under moderate heat stress. However, the physiological significance of RCA bound to the TM (TM-RCA) without heat stress remains unknown. In this study, it is first shown, using experiments in vivo, that the TM-RCA varies in rice leaves at different development stages, under different environmental conditions, and in a rice mutant. Furthermore, it is shown that the amount of TM-RCA always increased when the Rubisco activation state and the pH gradient across the TM (DeltapH) decreased. It was then demonstrated in vitro that the RCA bound dynamically to TM and the amount of TM-RCA increased during Rubisco activation. A high level of ATP and a high pH value promoted the dissociation of RCA from the TM. Both the RCA association with and dissociation from the TM showed conformational changes related to the ATP level or pH as indicated by the changes in fluorescence intensity of 1-anilinonaphthalene-8-sulphonic acid (ANS) binding to RCA. These results suggest that the reversible association of RCA with the TM is ATP and pH (or DeltapH) dependent; it might be involved in the RCA activation of Rubisco, in addition to the previously discovered role in the protection and regulation of photosynthesis under heat stress.
20478970	Previous studies of highly branched mutants in pea (rms1-rms5), Arabidopsis thaliana (max1-max4), petunia (dad1-dad3), and rice (d3, d10, htd1/d17, d14, d27) identified strigolactones or their derivates (SLs), as shoot branching inhibitors. This recent discovery offers the possibility of using SLs to regulate branching commercially, for example, in chrysanthemum, an important cut flower crop. To investigate this option, SL physiology and molecular biology were studied in chrysanthemum (Dendranthema grandiflorum), focusing on the CCD8/MAX4/DAD1/RMS1/D10 gene. Our results suggest that, as has been proposed for Arabidopsis, the ability of SLs to inhibit bud activity depends on the presence of a competing auxin source. The chrysanthemum SL biosynthesis gene, CCD8 was cloned, and found to be regulated in a similar, but not identical way to known CCD8s. Expression analyses revealed that DgCCD8 is predominantly expressed in roots and stems, and is up-regulated by exogenous auxin. Exogenous SL can down-regulate DgCCD8 expression, but this effect can be overridden by apical auxin application. This study provides evidence that SLs are promising candidates to alter the shoot branching habit of chrysanthemum.
20480823	The objective of this research was to evaluate the treatment ofp-nitrophenol (PNP) as a sole organic carbon source using a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) with the addition of adsorbent. Two types of adsorbents, namely powdered activated carbon (PAC) and pyrolysed rice husk (PRH) were used in this study. Two identical SBRs, each with a working volume of 10 L, were operated with fill, react, settle, draw and idle periods in the ratio of 2:8:1:0.75:0.25 for a cycle time of 12 h. The results showed that, without the addition of adsorbent, increasing the influent PNP concentration to 200 mg/L resulted in the deterioration of chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal efficiency and PNP removal efficiency in the SBRs. Improvement in the performance of the SBR was observed with the addition of PAC. When the dosage of 1.0 g PAC/cycle was applied, COD removal of 95% and almost complete removal of PNP were achieved at the influent PNP concentration of 300 mg/L. The kinetic study showed that the rates of COD and PNP removal can be described by the first-order kinetics. The enhancement of performance in the PAC-supplemented SBR was postulated to be due to the initial adsorption of PNP by the freshly added and the bioregenerated PAC, thus reducing the inhibition on the microorganisms. The PRH was found to be ineffective because of its relatively low adsorption capacity for PNP, compared with that of PAC.
20480886	Two simple and straightforward sample preparation methods were developed for the multiresidue analysis of post-emergence herbicides in loam soil that are commonly used in rice crop cultivation. A number of strategic soil extraction and cleanup methods were evaluated. The instrumental analysis was performed by HPLC with a diode array detector. The best compromise between the recoveries (69-98%) and good repeatability (RSD < 15%) was obtained using either methanol or methanol-ethyl acetate (70 + 30, v/v) as extraction solvents without any further cleanup. For the first time, residues of metsulfuron methyl, bensulfuron ethyl, bentazone, cyhalofop butyl, pyrazosulfuron ethyl, propanil, and clomazone were analyzed simultaneously. Quinclorac and bispyribac sodium were also assayed, but their recoveries were below 50%. Both methods had an LOD of 0.7 microg/kg and could accurately determine the residues at the 2 microg/kg level. These two methods could not be applied directly to other soil types as the recoveries strongly depended on the soil composition. The developed methodologies were successfully applied in monitoring 87 real-world soil samples, in which only propanil (6 to 12 microg/kg) and clomazone (15 to 20 microg/kg) residues could be detected.
20480908	Neogen Corp. developed the Veratox DON test kit for the detection ofdeoxynivalenol (DON). The purpose of this study was to validate the method under the requirements of the AOAC Research Institute Performance Tested Methods (PTM) program. There are two AOAC Official Methods for DON detection: 986.17 and 986.18, the first of which is a TLC method and the second a GC method. A rapid method (PTM 000701) has also been performance tested by the AOAC Research Institute. One of the most widely used reference methods; however, is a GC method with electron capture detection that is referred to as the reference method in this paper. Although considered the reference method, the GC procedure is complicated and requires the investment of both expensive equipment and a highly skilled technician. A rapid (e.g., ELISA) test kit needs to be validated by the AOAC Research Institute. The Veratox 2/3 method is highly reproducible with average CV values < 10%, and is very accurate, showing > 97% correlation to reference methods.
20480920	A preconcentration/separation procedure for copper(II), iron(III), and lead(II) ions has been established for use prior to their flame atomic absorption spectrometric determination. The presented procedure is based on adsorption of analyte ions on Amberlite XAD-16 resin as their N'-benzoyl-N,N-diisobutylthiourea chelates. The influence of analytical parameters including pH of the solutions and type of eluent on the recoveries of Cu(II), Fe(III), and Pb(II) ions was investigated. The recoveries of the analytes were generally > 95%. No interference effects were observed from alkaline, earth alkaline, or transition metals on the recoveries of the studied metals. The LODs based on 3sigma were 1.9 microg/L for Cu, 5.9 microg/L for Fe, and 3.1 microg/L for Pb. Validation of the procedure was carried out by analyzing standard reference material 1568a (rice flour). The procedure was applied to the determination of analytes in natural water samples.
20480922	The Horwitz curve estimates interlaboratory precision as a function only of concentration, and is frequently used as a method performance criterion in food analysis with chemical methods. The quantitative biochemical methods based on real-time PCR require an analogous criterion to progressively promote method validation. We analyzed the tendency of precision using a simplex real-time PCR technique in 53 collaborative studies of seven genetically modified (GM) crops. Reproducibility standard deviation (SR) and repeatability standard deviation (Sr) of the genetically modified organism (GMO) amount (%) was more or less independent of GM crops (i.e., maize, soybean, cotton, oilseed rape, potato, sugar beet, and rice) and evaluation procedure steps. Some studies evaluated whole steps consisting of DNA extraction and PCR quantitation, whereas others focused only on the PCR quantitation step by using DNA extraction solutions. Therefore, SR and Sr for GMO amount (%) are functions only of concentration similar to the Horwitz curve. We proposed S(R) = 0.1971C 0.8685 and S(r) = 0.1478C 0.8424, where C is the GMO amount (%). We also proposed a method performance index in GMO quantitative methods that is analogous to the Horwitz Ratio.
20480983
20481473	Zinc (Zn) is an essential micronutrient for humans, and increasing Zn density in rice (Oryza sativa L.) grains is important for improving human nutrition. The characteristics of Zn translocation and remobilization were investigated in high Zn density genotype IR68144, in comparison with the low Zn density genotype IR64. Stable isotope tracer (68)Zn was supplied at various growth stages, either to the roots in nutrient solution or to the flag leaves to investigate the contribution of (68)Zn absorbed at different growth stages to grain accumulation and the remobilization ability of (68)Zn within plants. Significant differences in (68)Zn allocation were observed between the two rice genotypes. Much higher (68)Zn concentrations were found in grains, stems, and leaves of IR68144 than in IR64, but higher (68)Zn was found in roots of IR64. More than half of the Zn accumulated in the grains was remobilized before anthesis, accounting for 63 and 52% of the total Zn uptake for IR68144 and IR64, respectively. Without supply of external Zn, at vegetative or reproductive stages, more (68)Zn was retranslocated from "old tissues" to "new tissues" in IR68144 than in IR64. Retranslocation of (68)Zn from flag leaves to grains was twice as high in the former when (68)Zn was applied to the flag leaves during booting or anthesis. These results indicate that Zn density in rice grains is closely associated with the ability to translocate Zn from old tissues to new tissues at both early and late growth stages and with phloem remobilization of Zn from leaves and stems to grains.
20481550	Nonylphenols (NPs) are the breakdown products of the nonionic surfactants nonylphenol ethoxylates and are toxic pollutants. Here we studied the bioaccumulation, elimination, and biotransformation of NP (12.3 mg kg(-1) soil dry weight) in a typical Chinese geophagous earthworm, Metaphire guillelmi, in a rice paddy soil, using 4-[1-ethyl-1,3-dimethylpentyl]phenol (4-NP(111)), the main constitute of technical NP, radiolabeled with (14)C. Earthworms rapidly bioaccumulated (14)C-4-NP(111) following a two-compartment first-order kinetics model. At steady state (after 20 days exposure), the normalized biota-soil accumulation factor amounted to 120, and 77% of the accumulated radioactivity were present as nonextractable bound residues. The total radioactivity was eliminated from the earthworm following an availability-adjusted decay model and controlled by the elimination rate of the bound residues (half-life = 22.6 days). The extractable residues consisted mainly of one less-polar metabolite (37%) and polar compounds (50%), including glucuronide conjugates of 4-NP(111) and the metabolite; and free 4-NP(111) accounted for only 9% of the total extractable residues. This study provides the first results of the toxicokinetics and biotransformation of 4-NP in a terrestrial organism, and underlines the significant underestimation of the bioaccumulation and risk assessment based only on free NP in earthworms.
20482895	High-density oligonucleotide arrays are effective tools for genotyping numerous loci simultaneously. In small genome species (genome size: < approximately 300 Mb), whole-genome DNA hybridization to expression arrays has been used for various applications. In large genome species, transcript hybridization to expression arrays has been used for genotyping. Although rice is a fully sequenced model plant of medium genome size (approximately 400 Mb), there are a few examples of the use of rice oligonucleotide array as a genotyping tool. We compared the single feature polymorphism (SFP) detection performance of whole-genome and transcript hybridizations using the Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array, using the rice cultivars with full genome sequence, japonica cultivar Nipponbare and indica cultivar 93-11. Both genomes were surveyed for all probe target sequences. Only completely matched 25-mer single copy probes of the Nipponbare genome were extracted, and SFPs between them and 93-11 sequences were predicted. We investigated optimum conditions for SFP detection in both whole genome and transcript hybridization using differences between perfect match and mismatch probe intensities of non-polymorphic targets, assuming that these differences are representative of those between mismatch and perfect targets. Several statistical methods of SFP detection by whole-genome hybridization were compared under the optimized conditions. Causes of false positives and negatives in SFP detection in both types of hybridization were investigated. The optimizations allowed a more than 20% increase in true SFP detection in whole-genome hybridization and a large improvement of SFP detection performance in transcript hybridization. Significance analysis of the microarray for log-transformed raw intensities of PM probes gave the best performance in whole genome hybridization, and 22,936 true SFPs were detected with 23.58% false positives by whole genome hybridization. For transcript hybridization, stable SFP detection was achieved for highly expressed genes, and about 3,500 SFPs were detected at a high sensitivity (> 50%) in both shoot and young panicle transcripts. High SFP detection performances of both genome and transcript hybridizations indicated that microarrays of a complex genome (e.g., of Oryza sativa) can be effectively utilized for whole genome genotyping to conduct mutant mapping and analysis of quantitative traits such as gene expression levels.
2048326	The impact of cash cropping in West Africa cannot be isolated from its social and historical background. Among the many changes brought to West African economies by cash cropping since the beginning of the century, the present document shows how the extension of trade with European merchants and colonizers created new sets of values and criteria for wealth. Food crops gradually lost their prominent cultural and economics roles to the benefit of export crops or goods. Traditional systems of agricultural production were profoundly disrupted by military actions. They imposed colonial rule and control of trade of tropical crops and goods. Forced labor and compulsory (poorly paid) work assignments were instituted for private and public enterprises: construction of roads, railways, public buildings and plantations. The main justification was the need for cheap labor to cultivate, transport and build roads for the extraction of raw materials. This in turn caused massive migrations from countries such as Burkina Faso (Upper Volta) to Ivory Coast. Cash cropping made systematic collection of taxes possible. An imposition on a per capita basis became the rule and the major incentive of small farmers to engage in commercial farming. Cash cropping made also possible extensive monetarization of West Africa. This results in both favorable and unfavorable effects on the quality of the diet. In profoundly disrupted traditional societies, the diffusion of new consumption patterns was easier and faster. It led to massive food imports of wheat, rice, sugar, alcohol, etc. Cash cropping was (and still is) practiced as a 'mining' agriculture, exhausting soils and deteriorating their fertility for extended periods of time. In the Sudanian and Sahelian zones cash cropping conflicted with the cultivation of grains because peak demands for labor were similar. Therefore, millet and sorghum production declined. Cash cropping was developed in response to the need of European economies for tropical products. However, colonization as a tool to obtain these raw materials was highly inefficient and associated with a considerable misuse of public funds. Together with cash cropping extension was created a network of intermediaries of large European corporations and shopkeepers who would efficiently drain all the earnings from cash cropping away from productive agricultural investments. It made possible the birth of local bourgeoisies and states dedicated almost exclusively to the extraction of a surplus value from the peasantry through cash cropping. It led to a displacement of the role of women; by attributing to them the less profitable food crops, the new production system managed to feed local cities and migrant workers at low cost. Cash cropping provides indirectly a new mean of exploiting women's labor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
20484022	3,8-Divinyl (proto)chlorophyll(ide) a 8-vinyl reductase (DVR) catalyzes the reduction of 8-vinyl group on the tetrapyrrole to an ethyl group, which is indispensable for monovinyl chlorophyll (Chl) synthesis. So far, three 8-vinyl reductase genes (DVR, bciA, and slr1923) have been characterized from Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana), Chlorobium tepidum, and Synechocystis sp. PCC6803. However, no 8-vinyl reductase gene has yet been identified in monocotyledonous plants. In this study, we isolated a spontaneous mutant, 824ys, in rice (Oryza sativa). The mutant exhibited a yellow-green leaf phenotype, reduced Chl level, arrested chloroplast development, and retarded growth rate. The phenotype of the 824ys mutant was caused by a recessive mutation in a nuclear gene on the short arm of rice chromosome 3. Map-based cloning of this mutant resulted in the identification of a gene (Os03g22780) showing sequence similarity with the Arabidopsis DVR gene (AT5G18660). In the 824ys mutant, nine nucleotides were deleted at residues 952 to 960 in the open reading frame, resulting in a deletion of three amino acid residues in the encoded product. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis of Chls indicated the mutant accumulates only divinyl Chl a and b. A recombinant protein encoded by Os03g22780 was expressed in Escherichia coli and found to catalyze the conversion of divinyl chlorophyll(ide) a to monovinyl chlorophyll(ide) a. Therefore, it has been confirmed that Os03g22780, renamed as OsDVR, encodes a functional DVR in rice. Based upon these results, we succeeded to identify an 8-vinyl reductase gene in monocotyledonous plants and, more importantly, confirmed the DVR activity to convert divinyl Chl a to monovinyl Chl a.
20484447	Promotion of the HIV epidemic by aflatoxin is postulated but not yet established. Sub-Saharan populations commonly consume food contaminated by mycotoxins, particularly aflatoxins (predominantly found in peanut, maize, rice, and cassava) and fumonisins, which occur primarily in maize. Aflatoxin promotes hepatocellular cancer, and fumonisin may promote esophageal cancer. This analysis was undertaken to test the hypotheses that consumption of mycotoxin-prone staple foods is 1) related to the incidence of HIV infection in Africa and 2) related to "signature" cancer rates confirming exposure to aflatoxins and fumonisins. World Health Organization data for causes of death and the Food and Agriculture Organization per capita consumption data for commodities in sub-Saharan Africa were used. Per capita Gross Domestic Product and the percentage of Muslims (%Muslim) were the socioeconomic data sets exploited. Relations between causes of mortality, consumption of mycotoxin-prone foods, and socioeconomic variables were evaluated. Models for HIV transmission as a function of maize consumption and %Muslim were estimated. HIV and esophageal cancer deaths were significantly related to maize but were inversely related to %Muslim and rice consumption. HIV infections were minimized (74 compared with 435/100,000 people; odds ratio: 2.41; 95% CI: 1.73, 3.24; P < or = 0.0001) by the combination of low maize consumption and above-median % Muslim. Hepatocellular cancer deaths were positively related to rice but negatively related to maize consumption. HIV transmission frequency is positively associated with maize consumption in Africa. The relation between cancer and food suggests that fumonisin contamination rather than aflatoxin is the most likely factor in maize promoting HIV. Changes to the quality of maize may avoid up to 1,000,000 transmissions of HIV annually.
20485775	A theoretical study of the mechanism and kinetics of the H-abstraction reaction from dimethyl (DME), ethylmethyl (EME) and iso-propylmethyl (IPME) ethers by the OH radical has been carried out using the high-level methods CCSD(T)/CBS, G3 and G3MP2BH&H. The computationally less-expensive methods of G3 and G3MP2BH&H yield results for DME within 0.2-0.6 and 0.7-0.9 kcal mol(-1), respectively, of the coupled cluster, CCSD(T), values extrapolated to the basis set limit. So the G3 and G3MP2BH&H methods can be confidently used for the reactions of the higher ethers. A distinction is made between the two different kinds of H-atoms, classified as in/out-of the symmetry plane, and it is found that abstraction from the out-of-plane H-atoms proceeds through a stepwise mechanism involving the formation of a reactant complex in the entrance channel and product complex in the exit channel. The in-plane H-atom abstractions take place through a more direct mechanism and are less competitive. Rate constants of the three reactions have been calculated in the temperature range of 500-3000 K using the Variflex code, based on the weak collision, master equation/microcanonical variational RRKM theory including tunneling corrections. The computed total rate constants (cm(3) mol(-1) s(-1)) have been fitted as follows: k(DME) = 2.74 xT(3.94) exp (1534.2/T), k(EME) = 20.93 xT(3.61) exp (2060.1/T) and k(IPME) = 0.55 xT(3.93) exp (2826.1/T). Expressions of the group rate constants for the three different carbon sites are also provided.
20485999	Although the need for policy development on arsenic (As) in rice has been recognized and a legally enforceable maximum contaminant level (MCL) for inorganic arsenic (As(i)) in rice has been established in China, evidence reported in this article indicates that the risk of exposure to As for the Chinese population through rice is still underestimated. Polished rice from various production regions of China was analyzed for total As and arsenic species using HPLC-ICPMS. Total As concentration ranged 65.3-274.2 ng g(-1), with an average value of 114.4 ng g(-1). Four arsenic species, including arsenite (As(III)), arsenate (As(V)), dimethylarsinic acid (DMA) and monomethylarsonic acid (MMA), were detected in most rice samples. The As(i) (As(III) + As(V)) species was predominant, accounting for approximately 72% of the total As in rice, with a mean concentration of 82.0 ng g(-1). In assessing the risk from As in rice, we found that As intake for the Chinese population through rice is higher than from drinking water, with a 37.6% contribution to the maximum tolerable daily intake (MTDI) of As recommended by World Health Organization (WHO), compared with 1.5% from drinking water. Compared to other countries, the risk for the Chinese from exposure to As through rice is more severe due to the large rice consumption in China. Therefore, not only the scientific community but also local authorities should take this risk seriously. Furthermore, more stringent legislation of the MCL for rice should be enacted to protect the Chinese consumer from a high intake of As.
20487016	Xanthomonas oryzae pathovar oryzae (Xoo) and X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc) cause bacterial diseases in rice: leaf blight and leaf streak, respectively. Although both the Asian and the African strains of Xoo induce similar symptoms, they are genetically different, with the African Xoo strains being more closely related to the Asian Xoc. To identify the sequences responsible for differences between African and Asian Xoo strains and their relatedness to Xoc strains, a suppression-subtractive hybridization (SSH) procedure was performed, using the African Xoo MAI1 strain as a tester and the Philippine Xoo PXO86 strain and Xoc BLS256 strain as drivers. A nonredundant set of 134 sequences from MAI1 was generated. Several DNA fragments isolated by SSH were similar to genes of unknown function, hypothetical proteins, genes related to the type III secretion system, and other pathogenicity-related genes. The specificity of various fragments was validated by Southern blot analysis. SSH sequences were compared with several xanthomonad genomes. In silico analysis revealed SSH sequences as specific to strain MAI1, revealing their potential as specific markers for further epidemiological and diagnostic studies. SSH proved to be a useful method for rapidly identifying specific genes among closely related X. oryzae strains.
20487095	A total of 12 crossbred (Boer × Anglo-Nubian) goats were chosen from a commercial farm on the basis of similar body weight (25.0 ± 3.1 kg). The goats were housed in individual pens and allowed 3 weeks to adapt to experimental conditions. The goats were randomly allocated to three treatments in a 3 × 3 Latin square experiment (replicated four times). Within each period, each goat was given rice straw as roughage plus the respective treatment diet. The diets were iso-nitrogenous and iso-energetic containing cassava pulp, molasses, urea and commercial mineral and vitamin mix. The experimental treatments were (i) soybean meal (SBM), (ii) partial substitution of SBM with Leucaena (Leucaena leucocephala) foliage and (iii) partial substitution of SBM with Madras thorn (Pithecellobium dulce) foliage. Nutrient intakes, ruminal characteristics (pH, ammonia nitrogen and volatile fatty acids), nitrogen balances, plasma urea nitrogen and microbial N supply were not significantly different among treatments. The results of this study indicate that protein foliages from locally grown shrubs and trees can substitute imported feedstuff concentrates (e.g. SBM) as protein supplement for goat production.
20487381	We conducted genome-wide mapping of cytosine methylation using methylcytosine immunoprecipitation combined with Illumina sequencing. The chromosomal distribution pattern of methylated DNA is similar to the heterochromatin distribution pattern on rice chromosomes. The DNA methylation patterns of rice genes are similar to those in Arabidopsis thaliana, including distinct methylation patterns asssociated with gene bodies and promoters. The DNA sequences in the core domains of rice Cen4, Cen5 and Cen8 showed elevated methylation levels compared with sequences in the pericentromeric regions. In addition, elevated methylation levels were associated with the DNA sequences in the CENH3-binding subdomains, compared with the sequences in the flanking H3 subdomains. In contrast, the centromeric domain of Cen11, which is composed exclusively of centromeric satellite DNA, is hypomethylated compared with the pericentromeric domains. Thus, the DNA sequences associated with functional centromeres can be either hypomethylated or hypermethylated. The methylation patterns of centromeric DNA appear to be correlated with the composition of the associated DNA sequences. We propose that both hypomethylation and hypermethylation of CENH3-associated DNA sequences can serve as epigenetic marks to distinguish where CENH3 deposition will occur within the surrounding H3 chromatin.
20487383	Leaf veins have a complex network pattern. Formation of this vein pattern has been widely studied as a model of tissue pattern formation in plants. To understand the molecular mechanism governing the vascular patterning process, we isolated the rice mutant, commissural vein excessive1 (coe1). The coe1 mutants had short commissural vein (CV) intervals and produced clustered CVs. Application of 1-N-naphthylphthalamic acid and brefeldin A decreased CV intervals, and application of 1-naphthaleneacetic acid increased CV intervals in wild-type rice; however, coe1 mutants were insensitive to these chemicals. COE1 encodes a leucine-rich repeat receptor-like kinase, whose amino acid sequence is similar to that of brassinosteroid-insensitive 1-associated receptor kinase 1 (BAK1), and which is localized at the plasma membrane. Because of the sequence similarity of COE1 to BAK1, we also examined the involvement of brassinosteroids in CV formation. Brassinolide, an active brassinosteroid, decreased the CV intervals of wild-type rice, and brassinazole, an inhibitor of brassinosteroid biosynthesis, increased the CV intervals of wild-type rice, but coe1 mutants showed insensitivity to these chemicals. These results suggest that auxin and brassinosteroids regulate CV intervals in opposite directions, and COE1 may regulate CV intervals downstream of auxin and brassinosteroid signals.
20487558	Peptide transporter (PTR) family whose member can transport di-/tripeptides and nitrate is important for plant growth and development. Although the rice (Oryza sativa L.) genome has been sequenced for a few years, a genomic survey, characterization and expression profile analysis of the PTR family in this species has not been reported. In this study, we report a comprehensive identification, characterization, phylogenetic and evolutionary analysis of 84 PTR family members in rice (OsPTR) as well as their whole-life expression patterns. Chromosomal distribution and sequence analysis indicate that nearly 70% of OsPTR members are involved in the tandem and segmental duplication events. It suggests that genome duplication might be a major mechanism for expansion of this family. Highly conserved motifs were identified in most of the OsPTR members. Meanwhile, expression profile of OsPTR genes has been analyzed by using Affymetrix rice microarray and real-time PCR in two elite hybrid rice parents, Minghui 63 and Zhenshan 97. Seven genes are found to exhibit either preferential or tissue-specific expression during different development stages of rice. Under phytohormone (NAA, GA3 and KT) and light/dark treatments, 14 and 17 OsPTR genes are differentially expressed respectively. Ka/Ks analysis of the paralogous OsPTR genes indicates that purifying selection plays an important role in function maintenance of this family. These investigations add to our understanding of the importance of OsPTR family members and provide useful reference for selecting candidate genes for functional validation studies of this family in rice.
20490609	The exposure of paddy fields to arsenic (As) through groundwater irrigation is a serious concern that may not only lead to As accumulation to unacceptable levels but also interfere with mineral nutrients in rice grains. In the present field study, profiling of the mineral nutrients (iron (Fe), phosphorous, zinc, and selenium (Se)) was done in various rice genotypes with respect to As accumulation. A significant genotypic variation was observed in elemental retention on root Fe plaque and their accumulation in various plant parts including grains, specific As uptake (29-167 mg kg(-1) dw), as well as As transfer factor (4-45%). Grains retained the least level of As (0.7-3%) with inorganic As species being the dominant forms, while organic As species, viz., dimethylarsinic acid and monomethylarsonic acid, were non-detectable. In all tested varieties, the level of Se was low (0.05-0.12 mg kg(-1) dw), whereas that of As was high (0.4-1.68 mg kg(-1) dw), considering their safe/recommended daily intake limits, which may not warrant their human consumption. Hence, their utilization may increase the risk of arsenicosis, when grown in As-contaminated areas.
20490664	The study was carried out at Woreta, Ethiopia, to determine feed intake, digestibility, body weight (BW) change, and profitability of Farta sheep fed pasture hay alone or supplemented with graded levels of concentrate mix (CM) consisting of noug seed meal (NSM) and rice bran in 2:1 ratio. Twenty yearling intact male Farta sheep with BW of 16.9 +/- 1.68 kg (mean +/- SD) were used in randomized complete block design arranged into five blocks of four animals. The dietary treatments consisting of sole natural pasture hay (T1, control), hay +200 g of CM dry matter (DM) (T2, low), hay +300 g of CM DM (T3, medium), and hay +400 g of CM DM (T4, high) were randomly assigned to sheep within each block. Common salt and water were available to animals all the time. The supplements were offered twice daily in equal portions at 0800 and 1600 h. Supplementation with the CM increased (P < 0.001) DM, organic matter, crude protein, neutral detergent fiber, and acid detergent fiber intake and digestibility. The final BW and daily BW gains were higher (P < 0.001) for the supplemented compared to the control treatment. The study also revealed supplementation improved feed conversion efficiency and profitability. Among the supplemented treatments, the high level of supplementation resulted in better (P < 0.001) nutrient utilization, animal performance, and profitability. Thus, the high level of supplementation is recommended based on biological performance and profitability under conditions of this study.
20490919	There is currently a shortage of efficient promoters for stress-inducible gene expression, especially in monocotyledonous crops. Here, we report analysis of the rice Wsi18 promoter, a member of the group 3 Lea family, in transgenic rice plants. The abundance of Wsi18 mRNA increased in leaf tissues within 2 h of exposure to NaCl or abscisic acid (ABA) and within 6 h of exposure to drought, but there was no transcript increase in response to low-temperature conditions. Wsi18 mRNA accumulated in the roots similarly to in the leaves, but at a faster rate. The promoter was linked to the GFP reporter gene, transformed into rice, and its activity was analyzed in transgenic plants at all stages of plant growth from calli, vegetative tissues, flowers, and to dry seeds, both before and after stress treatment. The activity of the promoter was significantly increased in the whole plant body, including flowers, on exposure of plants to stress conditions, with very low levels of basal activity in all tissues. Moreover, the promoter was found to be predominantly active in the whole grain, including endosperm, embryo, and aleurone layer during seed development. Together, we have identified and analyzed the Wsi18 promoter and found a previously undescribed characteristic-a stress-inducible property in the whole plant body with activity in the whole grain during seed development.
2049093	DNA methyltransferase activity has been observed in a total crude homogenate of rice cells grown in suspension culture using either native plant DNA or, under the conditions used, the more responsive hemimethylated poly (dI-MedC).poly(dI-dC). Using the latter substrate we have purified an enzyme fraction 380-fold by salt extraction of chromatin, DEAE cellulose and phosphocellulose. This purified fraction showed enzyme activity only with poly (dI-MedC).poly(dI-dC) thus suggesting the occurrence in plants of a DNA methyltransferase specific for hemimethylated DNA. A Mr value of 54000 was calculated on the basis of the sedimentation coefficient which was determined by sucrose density gradient centrifugation. Apparent Km values for poly (dI-MedC).poly(dI-dC) and S-adenosyl-L-methionine were found to be 17 micrograms/ml and 2.6 microM, respectively.
20491920	The microbial community structure was investigated together with the path of methane production in Italian rice field soil incubated at moderate (35 degrees C) and high (45 degrees C) temperature using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism and stable isotope fractionation. The structure of both the archaeal and bacterial communities differed at 35 degrees C compared with 45 degrees C, and acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis dominated, respectively. Changing the incubation of the 45 degrees C soil to different temperatures (25, 30, 35, 40, 45, 50 degrees C) resulted in a dynamic change of both microbial community structure and stable isotope fractionation. In all treatments, acetate first accumulated and then decreased. Propionate was also transiently produced and consumed. It is noteworthy that acetate was also consumed at thermophilic conditions, although archaeal community composition and stable isotope fractionation indicated that acetoclastic methanogenesis did not operate. Instead, acetate must have been consumed by syntrophic acetate oxidizers. The transient accumulation and subsequent consumption of acetate at thermophilic conditions was specifically paralleled by terminal restriction fragments characteristic for clostridial cluster I, whereas those of clostridial clusters I and III, Acidaminococcaceae and Heliobacteraceae, paralleled the thermophilic turnover of both acetate and propionate.
20491962	Muscle haematoma represents 10-25% of bleeds in patients with severe haemophilia. There is limited consensus on diagnostic or treatment strategies and little knowledge about the natural history of muscle haematoma and optimal treatment goals. The aim of this review was to perform a systematic description of the natural history of muscle haematoma in healthy athletes, focusing on diagnosis, classification and treatment options. Publications and educational textbooks on management of sports injuries were used as data source. Muscle haematomas occur following contusion, strain, or laceration and can be categorized as mild, moderate, or severe. Muscle haematoma may be inter- or intramuscular. In healthy athletes, the healing process takes 20-40 days. Optimal diagnosis includes history, physical examination (inspection, palpation, active and passive range of motion (ROM) test, muscle length test, isometric strength test, biomechanical examination, full spinal examination, peripheral nerve test and slump test), ultrasound, MRI or CT. Treatment is conducted based on: (i) super-acute stage, control of the bleeding and minimizing the size of the haematoma; (ii) acute stage, restoration of pain-free ROM; (iii) subacute stage, functional rehabilitation; and (iv) gradual return to normal activity. Treatment and preventive strategies include RICE (rest, ice, compression and elevation), protected mobilization, stretching and strengthening exercises, manual therapy (articular, neural and soft tissue mobilization and massage), correction of movement dysfunction, functional rehabilitation and electro-therapeutic interventions. The study reviews the natural history of muscle haematoma and state-of-the-art diagnosis and treatment in healthy athletes. Results may be useful to optimize diagnosis and treatment of muscle haematoma in patients with haemophilia.
20492098	Germinated brown rice has been reported to be nutritious due to increased free gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The physicochemical properties of brown rice (BR) and glutinous brown rice (GNBR) after germination as affected by different steeping times (24, 36, 48, and 72 h depending on the rice variety) and pHs of steeping water (3, 5, 7, and as-is) were determined and compared to those of the nongerminated one (control). As the steeping time increased or pH of steeping water decreased, germinated brown rice flours (GBRF) from both BR and GNBR had greater reducing sugar, free GABA and alpha-amylase activity; while the total starch and viscosity were lower than their respective controls. GBRFs from both BR and GNBR prepared after 24-h steeping time at pH 3 contained a high content of free GABA at 32.70 and 30.69 mg/100 g flour, respectively. The peak viscosity of GBRF obtained from both BR and GNBR (7.42 to 228.22 and 4.42 to 58.67 RVU, respectively) was significantly lower than that of their controls (255.46 and 190.17 RVU, respectively). The principal component analysis indicated that the important variables for discriminating among GBRFs, explained by the first 2 components at 89.82% of total explained variance, were the pasting profiles, alpha-amylase activity, and free GABA.
20492250	The removal effect on excessive fusel alcohols from rice spirits were investigated using nanofiltration (NF) and ultrafiltration (UF). Compared to UF (GE and GH membranes), NF (DK and DL membranes) showed 10 times greater effect for fusel alcohols rejection due to molecular weight cut-off. On operating pressures, 488.95 kPa was suitable with a rejection rate attaining 44.2% for DK membrane. Only slight changes in physicochemical indices including ethanol concentration, flavor, total acidity, pH value, and soluble solid content were observed for rice-spirits after NF treatment. Moreover, rice spirits treated with the DK membrane achieved a higher score in sensory evaluation. We anticipated a practical application of the nonheat processes in rice spirits production.
20492259	The effect of 5 types of starch (rice, potato, waxy corn, corn, and modified waxy corn) on the sensory properties of white sauces was studied. A comparative study was also made of variations resulting from freezing/thawing and effect of replacing 0.15% starch with 2 nonstarchy hydrocolloids, xanthan gum (XG), or locust bean gum (LBG) in samples to be frozen. The sensory properties were studied through descriptive analysis by a panel of 10 trained judges. Principal components analysis and cluster analysis were used to group each of the samples according to the scores for consistency, resilience, graininess, thickness, heterogeneity, creaminess, and mouth coating, the sensory attributes which were chosen to define the sauces under study. Significant differences were found between the different starches employed: the rice and modified starches presented similar behavior to each other, as did the potato starch and corn starch, while the waxy starch sauce stood apart from the rest because of its resilience. The freeze/thaw cycle had the greatest effect on the corn-starch sauce, increasing its graininess and heterogeneity values owing to retrogradation. Adding XG or LBG to the sauces subjected to a period of freezing/thawing did not have a significant effect on the sensory attributes of the reheated sauces made with rice, potato, or waxy or modified starch, but lower graininess and heterogeneity values were observed in the sauce made with corn starch.
20492547	The Arabidopsis gene AVP1 encodes a vacuolar pyrophosphatase that functions as a proton pump on the vacuolar membrane. Overexpression of AVP1 in Arabidopsis, tomato and rice enhances plant performance under salt and drought stress conditions, because up-regulation of the type I H+-PPase from Arabidopsis may result in a higher proton electrochemical gradient, which facilitates enhanced sequestering of ions and sugars into the vacuole, reducing water potential and resulting in increased drought- and salt tolerance when compared to wild-type plants. Furthermore, overexpression of AVP1 stimulates auxin transport in the root system and leads to larger root systems, which helps transgenic plants absorb water more efficiently under drought conditions. Using the same approach, AVP1-expressing cotton plants were created and tested for their performance under high-salt and reduced irrigation conditions. The AVP1-expressing cotton plants showed more vigorous growth than wild-type plants in the presence of 200 mM NaCl under hydroponic growth conditions. The soil-grown AVP1-expressing cotton plants also displayed significantly improved tolerance to both drought and salt stresses in greenhouse conditions. Furthermore, the fibre yield of AVP1-expressing cotton plants is at least 20% higher than that of wild-type plants under dry-land conditions in the field. This research indicates that AVP1 has the potential to be used for improving crop's drought- and salt tolerance in areas where water and salinity are limiting factors for agricultural productivity.
20494561	A heterolobosean amoeba strain 6_5F was isolated from an Italian rice field soil. Although 18S rRNA gene sequence analysis demonstrated that the new isolate was closely related to Stachyamoeba sp. ATCC 50324, further molecular analysis and morphological observation showed distinct differences amongst the two. The 5.8S rRNA gene was successfully amplified and sequenced for strain 6_5F but not for strain ATCC 50324. Trophozoites of strain ATCC 50324 transform into flagellate forms in the late stage of incubation before encystment, while strain 6_5F do not show flagellate forms under different conditions of the flagellation test. Light and electron microscopic observation showed the structural difference of cysts of strain 6_5F from strain ATCC 50324 and also from the type strain Stachyamoeba lipophora. The results show that the strain 6_5F is distinct from Stachyamoeba spp. and we propose a new genus and species for this isolate, Vrihiamoeba italica gen. nov., sp. nov.
20494950	The CLE (CLVATA3/ESR-related) family of plant polypeptide signaling molecules shares a conserved 14-amino-acid (aa) motif, designated the CLE motif, which recent studies suggest is sufficient for CLE function in vitro. In this study, we report that Arabidopsis CLE proteins can function in a tissue-specific manner and confirm some CLE factors can act through different receptors. Using domain swapping, we show for the first time that the CLE motif likely determines much of the functional tissue-specificity of the proteins in planta. However, we also provide evidence in support of the new view that sequences outside the CLE motif (14 aa) contribute to CLE function and functional specificity in vivo. Additionally, we report that deletion of the putative signal peptide from different CLE proteins completely inactivates CLE function in vivo, whereas exchanging the CLE signal peptides with a conventional signal peptide from a rice glycine-rich cell wall protein also influences CLE function. We thus propose that the CLE motif itself determines its functional tissue-specificity by dictating the direct recognition and interaction of each CLE peptide with its optimal receptor(s), whereas the receptor(s) may be available in a tissue-specific manner. On the other hand, the sequences outside the CLE motif may influence CLE function by affecting the processing of CLE peptides, resulting in a change in the availability and/or abundance of CLE peptides in specific tissues and/or cells.
20494951	Understanding the genetic mechanism underlying rice leaf-shape development is crucial for optimizing rice configuration and achieving high yields; however, little is known about leaf abaxial curling. We isolated a rice transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutant, BY240, which exhibited an abaxial leaf curling phenotype that co-segregated with the inserted T-DNA. The T-DNA was inserted in the promoter of a novel gene, ACL1 (Abaxially Curled Leaf 1), and led to overexpression of this gene in BY240. Overexpression of ACL1 in wild-type rice also resulted in abaxial leaf curling. ACL1 encodes a protein of 116 amino acids with no known conserved functional domains. Overexpression of ACL2, the only homolog of ACL1 in rice, also induced abaxial leaf curling. RT-PCR analysis revealed high expressions of ACLs in leaf sheaths and leaf blades, suggesting a role for these genes in leaf development. In situ hybridization revealed non-tissue-specific expression of the ACLs in the shoot apical meristem, leaf primordium, and young leaf. Histological analysis showed increased number and exaggeration of bulliform cells and expansion of epidermal cells in the leaves of BY240, which caused developmental discoordination of the abaxial and adaxial sides, resulting in abaxially curled leaves. These results revealed an important mechanism in rice leaf development and provided the genetic basis for agricultural improvement.
20495351	Genes coding for drought response element binding (DREB) proteins regulate transcription of a large number of downstream genes involved in the plant response to abiotic stresses. However the regulation of DREB genes themselves is not well understood. Using a bioinformatics approach, we identified the over-represented motifs in promoters of DREB genes of sorghum and rice as compared to all the other promoters in their genomes. Aligned orthologous promoter pairs of sorghum and rice DREBs were then used to identify co-localized motifs from among the over-represented ones, assuming that such motifs were likely to play a regulatory role. Finally the motifs over-represented in sorghum DREBs in comparison to their rice orthologs were identified. Results indicated over-representation of motifs pertaining to calcium, light, sugar, and hormone signaling in the DREB promoters. The co-localized motifs in DREB promoters were mainly those involved in abscisic acid-, light- and calcium-mediated regulation. These motifs along with others pertaining to ethylene signaling were over-represented in sorghum DREB promoters as compared to their orthologs from rice and could possibly contribute to its drought tolerance. Besides calcium, an integration of abscisic acid, ethylene, auxin and methyl jasmonate signaling was probably involved in regulating expression of the drought response through DREB transcription factors.
20495564	Identification of alleles that improve crop production and lead to higher-yielding varieties are needed for food security. Here we show that the quantitative trait locus WFP (WEALTHY FARMER'S PANICLE) encodes OsSPL14 (SQUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE 14, also known as IPA1). Higher expression of OsSPL14 in the reproductive stage promotes panicle branching and higher grain yield in rice. OsSPL14 controls shoot branching in the vegetative stage and is affected by microRNA excision. We also demonstrate the feasibility of using the OsSLP14(WFP) allele to increase rice crop yield. Introduction of the high-yielding OsSPL14(WFP) allele into the standard rice variety Nipponbare resulted in increased rice production.
20495565	Increasing crop yield is a major challenge for modern agriculture. The development of new plant types, which is known as ideal plant architecture (IPA), has been proposed as a means to enhance rice yield potential over that of existing high-yield varieties. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of a semidominant quantitative trait locus, IPA1 (Ideal Plant Architecture 1), which profoundly changes rice plant architecture and substantially enhances rice grain yield. The IPA1 quantitative trait locus encodes OsSPL14 (SOUAMOSA PROMOTER BINDING PROTEIN-LIKE 14) and is regulated by microRNA (miRNA) OsmiR156 in vivo. We demonstrate that a point mutation in OsSPL14 perturbs OsmiR156-directed regulation of OsSPL14, generating an 'ideal' rice plant with a reduced tiller number, increased lodging resistance and enhanced grain yield. Our study suggests that OsSPL14 may help improve rice grain yield by facilitating the breeding of new elite rice varieties.
20496050	Artificial microRNA (amiRNA) has become a powerful tool for gene silencing in plants. A new method for easy and rapid construction of rice artificial miRNA vector is described. The procedure involved modification of the pCAMBIA1300-UR vector by insertion of a 'vector modification fragment'. This was prepared from the precursor of Os-amiR528 by eliminating the central miRNA-containing region while simultaneously creating an AfeI restriction site. The fragment was then introduced to the destination vector to produce a multipurpose 'Highly Efficient gene Silencing Compatible vector' (HESC vector). AfeI was used to produce linearized HESC vectors, and a blunt end PCR product that included amiRNA sequence was cloned into this site by a single ligation reaction to create the completed amiRNA vector. Tests showed that the method was highly efficient, and greatly reduced the time needed for vector construction and resulted in a DNA sequence identical to that of the current method, making it particularly suitable for use in a systems biology approach to functional genomic research.
20496122	Zinc is an essential micronutrient for several physiological and biochemical processes. To investigate its transport in rice, we characterized OsZIP8, a rice ZIP (Zrt, Irt-like Protein) gene that is strongly up-regulated in shoots and roots under Zn deficiency. OsZIP8 could complement the growth defect of Zn-uptake yeast mutant. The OsZIP8-GFP fusion proteins were localized to the plasma membrane, suggesting that OsZIP8 is a plasma membrane zinc transporter in rice. Activation and overexpression of this gene disturbed the zinc distribution in rice plants, resulting in lower levels in shoots and mature seeds, but an increase in the roots. Field-grown transgenic plants were shorter than the WT. Under treatment with excess zinc, transgenics contained less zinc in their shoots but accumulated more in the roots. Altogether, these results demonstrate that OsZIP8 is a zinc transporter that functions in Zn uptake and distribution. Furthermore, zinc homeostasis is important to the proper growth and development of rice.
20496238	The n-BuOH-soluble portion of the 95% EtOH extract of red fermented rice fermented with the yellow mutant of the fungus Monascus purpureus BCRC 38113 (Monascaceae) led to the isolation of one new pyran-2-one derivative, namely peroxymonascuspyrone (1), along with nine known compounds, monasfluore A (2), monasfluore B (3), 3-epi-betulinic acid (4), 3-epi-betulinic acid acetate (5), alpha-tocospiro A (6), friedelan-3-one (7), alpha-cadinol (8), anticopalol (9), and spathulenol (10). Interestingly, this is the first report of a naturally occurring pyran-2-one skeleton isolated from Monascus sp. Their structures and relative configurations were elucidated by spectroscopic methods, including 1D- and 2D-NMR ((1)H,(1)H-COSY, HMQC, HMBC and NOESY), as well as low- and high-resolution mass spectrometric analyses. In addition, cytotoxicities against MCF-7, NCI-H460 and SF-268 cancer cell lines were measured in vitro; the results revealed that these metabolites have no cytotoxicity against the selected tumour cells.
20496693	An ASD Field Spec Pro Full Range spectrometer was used to acquire the spectral reflectance of healthy and diseased leaves infected by rice Aphelenchoides besseyi Christie, which were cut from rice individuals in the paddy field. Firstly, foliar pigment content was investigated. As compared with healthy leaves, the total chlorophyll and carotene contents (mg x g(-1)) of diseased leaves decreased 18% and 22%, respectively. The diseased foliar content ratio of total chlorophyll to carotene was nearly 82% of the healthy ones. Secondly, the response characteristics of hyperspectral reflectance of diseased leaves were analyzed. The spectral reflectance in the blue (450-520 nm), green (520-590 nm) and red (630-690 nm) regions were 2.5, 2 and 3.3 times the healthy ones respectively due to the decrease in foliar pigment content, whereas in the near infrared (NIR, 770-890 nm) region was 71.7 of the healthy ones because of leaf twist, and 73.7% for shortwave infrared (SWIR, 1 500-2 400 nm) region, owing to water loss. Moreover, the hyperspectral feature parameters derived from the raw spectra and the first derivative spectra were analyzed. The red edge position (REP) and blue edge position (BEP) shifted about 8 and 10 nm toward the short wavelengths respectively. The green peak position (GPP) and red trough position (RTP) shifted about 8.5 and 6 nm respectively toward the longer wavelengths. Finally, the area of the red edge peak (the sum of derivative spectra from 680 to 740 nm) and red edge position (REP) as the input vectors entered into C-SVC, which was an soft nonlinear margin classification method of support vector machine, to recognize the healthy and diseased leaves. The kernel function was radial basis function (RBF) and the value of punishment coefficient (C) was obtained from the classification model of training data sets (n = 138). The performance of C-SVC was examined with the testing sample (n = 126), and healthy and diseased leaves could be successfully differentiated without errors. This research demonstrated that the response feature of spectral reflectance was obvious to disease stress in rice leaves, and it was feasible to discriminate diseased leaves from healthy ones based on C-SVC model and hyperspectral reflectance.
20496721	The effects of dynamic ultra high-pressure microfluidization on the structure of waxy rice starch solutions (6%) were analyzed using SEM, UV-Vis spectra, polarized light microscopy, and X-ray diffraction spectra. The results showed that: SEM graphs demonstrated that the crystal structure of waxy rice starch under different pressure treatment was destroyed with different degrees and impacted into flake up to 160 MPa; from the ultraviolet-visible spectrum we know the reduction in the blue iodine value and the decrease in the amylopectin content, which illustrated that the structure of waxy rice starch was fractured; polarized microscopic images showed that the polarization crosses of starch molecules became misty with the pressure increasing, and most of starch molecules lost polarization cross when the pressure reached 160 MPa; X-ray diffraction spectra indicated that relative crystallinity began to decline at 120 MPa with pressure treatment, and the decreased amplitude was slightly lower.
20497370	2-Acetyl-1-pyrroline (2AP), the volatile compound that provides the 'popcorn-like' aroma in a large variety of cereal and food products, is widely found in nature. Deficiency in amino aldehyde dehydrogenase (AMADH) was previously shown to be the likely cause of 2AP biosynthesis in rice (Oryza sativa L.). In this study, the validity of this mechanism was investigated in soybeans (Glycine max L.). An assay of AMADH activity in soybeans revealed that the aromatic soybean, which contains 2AP, also lacked AMADH enzyme activity. Two genes, GmAMADH1 and GmAMADH2, which are homologous to the rice Os2AP gene that encodes AMADH, were characterized. The transcription level of GmAMADH2 was lower in aromatic varieties than in nonaromatic varieties, whereas the expression of GmAMADH1 did not differ. A double nucleotide (TT) deletion was found in exon 10 of GmAMADH2 in all aromatic varieties. This variation caused a frame-shift mutation and a premature stop codon. Suppression of GmAMADH2 by introduction of a GmAMADH2-RNAi construct into the calli of the two nonaromatic wild-type varieties inhibited the synthesis of AMADH and induced the biosynthesis of 2AP. These results suggest that deficiency in the GmAMADH2 product, AMADH, plays a similar role in soybean as in rice, which is to promote 2AP biosynthesis. This phenomenon might be a conserved mechanism among plant species.
20497996	Transposable elements (TE) exist in the genomes of nearly all eukaryotes. TE mobilization through 'cut-and-paste' or 'copy-and-paste' mechanisms causes their insertions into other repetitive sequences, gene loci and other DNA. An insertion of a TE commonly creates a unique TE junction in the genome. TE junctions are also randomly distributed along chromosomes and therefore useful for genome-wide marker development. Several TE-based marker systems have been developed and applied to genetic diversity assays, and to genetic and physical mapping. A software tool 'RJPrimers' reported here allows for accurate identification of unique repeat junctions using BLASTN against annotated repeat databases and a repeat junction finding algorithm, and then for fully automated high-throughput repeat junction-based primer design using Primer3 and BatchPrimer3. The software was tested using the rice genome and genomic sequences of Aegilops tauschii. Over 90% of repeat junction primers designed by RJPrimers were unique. At least one RJM marker per 10 Kb sequence of A. tauschii was expected with an estimate of over 0.45 million such markers in a genome of 4.02 Gb, providing an almost unlimited source of molecular markers for mapping large and complex genomes. A web-based server and a command line-based pipeline for RJPrimers are both available at http://wheat.pw.usda.gov/demos/RJPrimers/.
20498060	Bar-coded multiplexed sequencing approaches based on new-generation sequencing technologies provide capacity to sequence a mapping population in a single sequencing run. However, such approaches usually generate low-coverage and error-prone sequences for each line in a population. Thus, it is a significant challenge to genotype individual lines in a population for linkage map construction based on low-coverage sequences without the availability of high-quality genotype data of the parental lines. In this paper, we report a method for constructing ultrahigh-density linkage maps composed of high-quality single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) based on low-coverage sequences of recombinant inbred lines. First, all potential SNPs were identified to obtain drafts of parental genotypes using a maximum parsimonious inference of recombination, making maximum use of SNP information found in the entire population. Second, high-quality SNPs were identified by filtering out low-quality ones by permutations involving resampling of windows of SNPs followed by Bayesian inference. Third, lines in the mapping population were genotyped using the high-quality SNPs assisted by a hidden Markov model. With 0.05x genome sequence per line, an ultrahigh-density linkage map composed of bins of high-quality SNPs using 238 recombinant inbred lines derived from a cross between two rice varieties was constructed. Using this map, a quantitative trait locus for grain width (GW5) was localized to its presumed genomic region in a bin of 200 kb, confirming the accuracy and quality of the map. This method is generally applicable in genetic map construction with low-coverage sequence data.
20498118	Strigolactones (SLs) are newly discovered plant hormones that regulate plant growth and development including shoot branching. They also stimulate symbiosis with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi. Rice has at least three genes that are involved in SL synthesis (D10, D17/HTD1 and D27) and at least two genes that are involved in SL signaling (D3) and SL signaling or downstream metabolism (D14/D88/HTD2). We observed that mesocotyl elongation in darkness was greater in rice mutants defective in these genes than in the wild type. Exogenous application of a synthetic SL analog, GR24, rescued the phenotype of mesocotyl elongation in the SL-deficient mutants, d10-1, d17-1 and d27-1, in a dose-dependent manner, but did not affect mesocotyl lengths of the SL-insensitive mutants, d3-1 and d14-1. No significant differences in cell length were found between the d mutants and the wild type, except for some cells on the lower half of the d3-1 mesocotyl that were shortened. On the other hand, the number of cells in the mesocotyls was 3- to 6-fold greater in the d mutants than in the wild type. Treatment with GR24 reduced the number of cells in the d10-1 mesocotyl to the wild-type level, but did not affect the number of cells in the d3-1 and d14-1 mesocotyls. These findings indicate that SLs negatively regulate cell division, but not cell elongation, in the mesocotyl during germination and growth of rice in darkness.
20498338	Rice (Oryza sativa) as a staple food, provides a major source of dietary selenium (Se) for humans, which essentially requires Se, however, the molecular mechanism for Se uptake is still poorly understood. Herein, we show evidence that the uptake of selenite, a main bioavailable form of Se in paddy soils, is mediated by a silicon (Si) influx transporter Lsi1 (OsNIP2;1) in rice. Defect of OsNIP2;1 resulted in a significant decrease in the Se concentration of the shoots and xylem sap when selenite was given. However, there was no difference in the Se concentration between the wild-type rice and mutant of OsNIP2;1 when selenate was supplied. A short-term uptake experiment showed that selenite uptake greatly increased with decreasing pH in the external solution. Si as silicic acid did not inhibit the Se uptake from selenite in both rice and yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) at low pHs. Expression of OsNIP2;1 in yeast enhanced the selenite uptake at pH 3.5 and 5.5 but not at pH 7.5. On the other hand, defect of Si efflux transporter Lsi2 did not affect the uptake of Se either from selenite or selenate. Taken together, our results indicate that Si influx transporter OsNIP2;1 is permeable to selenite.
20498340	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters represent a large family in plants, but the functions of most of these transporters are unknown. Here we report a gene, AtSTAR1, only encoding an ATP-binding domain of a bacterial-type ABC transporter in Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). AtSTAR1 is an ortholog of rice (Oryza sativa) OsSTAR1, which has been implicated in aluminum (Al) tolerance. Knockout of AtSTAR1 resulted in increased sensitivity to Al and earlier flowering. Unlike OsSTAR1, AtSTAR1 was expressed in both the roots and shoots and its expression was not induced by Al or other stresses. Investigation of tissue-specific localization of AtSTAR1 through beta-glucuronidase fusion revealed that AtSTAR1 was predominantly expressed at outer cell layers of root tips and developing leaves, whose localization is also different from those of OsSTAR1. However, introduction of OsSTAR1 into atstar1 mutant rescued the sensitivity of atstar1 to Al, indicating that AtSTAR1 has a similar function as OsSTAR1. Furthermore, we found that AtSTAR1 may interact with ALS3, a transmembrane-binding domain in Arabidopsis to form a complex because introduction of OsSTAR1, a functional substitute of AtSTAR1, into als3 mutant resulted in the loss of OsSTAR1 protein. All these findings indicate that AtSTAR1 is involved in the basic detoxification of Al in Arabidopsis.
20498973	The colonization of Spodoptera frugiperda J.E. Smith larvae and rice seedlings by genetically modified endophytic bacterium Methylobacterium mesophilicum, and also the possible transfer of this bacterium to inside the larva's body during seedlings consumption were studied. The data obtained by bacterial reisolation and fluorescence microscopy showed that the bacterium colonized the rice seedlings, the larva's body and that the endophytic bacteria present in seedlings could be acquired by the larvae. In that way, the transference of endophytic bacterium from plants to insect can be a new and important strategy to insect control using engineered microorganisms.
20499123	Sorghum, a C4 model plant, has been studied to develop an understanding of the molecular mechanism of resistance to stress. The auxin-response genes, auxin/indole-3-acetic acid (Aux/IAA), auxin-response factor (ARF), Gretchen Hagen3 (GH3), small auxin-up RNAs, and lateral organ boundaries (LBD), are involved in growth/development and stress/defense responses in Arabidopsis and rice, but they have not been studied in sorghum. In the present paper, the chromosome distribution, gene duplication, promoters, intron/exon, and phylogenic relationships of Aux/IAA, ARF, GH3, and LBD genes in sorghum are presented. Furthermore, real-time PCR analysis demonstrated these genes are differently expressed in leaf/root of sorghum and indicated the expression profile of these gene families under IAA, brassinosteroid (BR), salt, and drought treatments. The SbGH3 and SbLBD genes, expressed in low level under natural condition, were highly induced by salt and drought stress consistent with their products being involved in both abiotic stresses. Three genes, SbIAA1, SbGH3-13, and SbLBD32, were highly induced under all the four treatments, IAA, BR, salt, and drought. The analysis provided new evidence for role of auxin in stress response, implied there are cross talk between auxin, BR and abiotic stress signaling pathways.
20499864	In this paper, one simple method to control two-direction anisotropic wetting by regular micropearl arrays was demonstrated. Various micropearl arrays with large area were rapidly fabricated by a kind of improved laser interference lithography. Specially, we found that the parallel contact angle (CA) theta(2) decreased from 93 degrees to 67 degrees as the intensity ratio of four laser beams increased from 2:1 to 30:1, while the perpendicular CA theta(1) determined by the thickness of the resin remained constant. This was interpreted as the decrease of height variations Delta h from 1100 to 200 nm along the parallel direction caused by the increase of the intensity ratio. According to this rule, both theta(1) and theta(2) could be simultaneously controlled by adjusting the height variation Delta h and the resin thickness. Moreover, by combining appropriate design and low surface energy modification, a natural anisotropic rice leaf exhibiting CAs of 146 degrees +/- 2 degrees/153 degrees +/- 3 degrees could be mimicked by our anisotropic biosurface with the CAs 145 degrees +/- 1 degrees/150 degrees +/- 2 degrees. We believe that these controlled anisotropic biosurfaces will be helpful for designing smart, fluid-controllable interfaces that may be applied in novel microfluidic devices, evaporation-driven micro/nanostructures, and liquid microdroplet directional transfer.
20499916	High-amylose starch is a source of resistant starch (RS) which has a great benefit on human health. A transgenic rice line (TRS) enriched amylose and RS had been developed by antisense RNA inhibition of starch branching enzymes. In this study, the native starch granules were isolated from TRS grains as well as the wild type, and their crystalline type was carefully investigated before and after acid hydrolysis. In high-amylose TRS rice, the C-type starch, which might result from the combination of both A-type and B-type starch, was observed and subsequently confirmed by multiple physical techniques, including X-ray powder diffraction, solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance, and Fourier transform infrared. Moreover, the change of starch crystalline structure from C- to B-type during acid hydrolysis was also observed in this RS-rich rice. These data could add to our understanding of not only the polymorph structure of cereal starch but also why high-amylose starch is more resistant to digestion.
20500015	Despite much evidence from laboratory work, epidemiological evidence remains elusive regarding the role of dietary fiber in colorectal carcinogenesis. We investigated associations of dietary fiber and source foods with colorectal cancer risk in the Fukuoka Colorectal Cancer Study, a community-based case-control study. The study subjects were 816 incident cases of colorectal cancer and 815 community controls. Nutrient and food intakes were estimated on the basis of a computer-assisted interview regarding 148 dietary items. Odds ratios of colorectal cancer according to quintile categories of energy-adjusted intakes of dietary fiber and food groups were obtained with adjustment for non-dietary factors and dietary intakes of calcium and n-3 fatty acids. Total, soluble and insoluble dietary fibers were not measurably associated with overall risk or subsite-specific risk of colorectal cancer. By contrast, rice consumption was associated with a decreased risk of colorectal cancer (trend p = 0.03), particularly of distal colon and rectal cancer (trend p = 0.02), and high intake of non-rice cereals tended to be related to an increased risk of colon cancer (trend p = 0.07). There was no association between vegetable consumption and colorectal cancer, whereas individuals with the lowest intake of fruits tended to have an increased risk of colorectal cancer. The present study did not corroborate a protective association between dietary fiber and colorectal cancer, but suggested a decreased risk of distal colorectal cancer associated with rice consumption.
2050116	Tobacco nuclear extract contains a factor that binds specifically to the motif I sequence (5'-GTACGTGGCG-3') conserved among rice rab genes and cotton lea genes. We isolated from a tobacco cDNA expression library, a partial cDNA clone encoding a truncated derivative of a protein designated as TAF-1. The truncated TAF-1 (Mr = 26,000) contains an acidic region at its N-terminus and a bZip motif at its C-terminus. Using a panel of motif I mutants as probes, we showed that the truncated TAF-1 and the tobacco nuclear factor for motif I have similar, it not identical, binding specificities. In particular, both show high-affinity binding to the perfect palindrome 5'-GCCACGTGGC-3' which is also known as the G-box motif. TAF-1 mRNA is highly expressed in root, but the level is at least 10 times lower in stem and leaf. Consistent with this observation, we found that a motif I tetramer, when fused to the -90 derivative of the CaMV 35S promoter, is inactive in leaf of transgenic tobacco. The activity, however, can be elevated by transient expression of the truncated TAF-1. We conclude from these results that TAF-1 can bind to the G-box and related motifs and that it functions as a transcription activator.
2050117	The beta-glucuronidase (GUS) gene linked to the promoter of rice light harvesting chlorophyll a/b-binding protein of photosystem II (LHCPII) was introduced into rice by electroporation. Expression of the GUS gene with the LHCP promoter in transformed protoplasts and callus was much lower than with the cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) 35S promoter. In green organs, however, LHCP-GUS activity with the LHCP promoter was 10-fold higher than that with the CaMV 35S promoter. Expression of the LHCP-GUS gene was detected in leaves, stems and floral organs but not in roots. Histochemical analysis of leaves showed that the GUS gene was expressed specifically in green tissues. In selfed seeds of the transformants, GUS gene expression was detectable only in the germinated embryos after greening. Northern blot analysis revealed that transcription of the GUS gene with the LHCP promoter was not detectable in dark-grown seedlings of transformants but was induced by exposure to light. These results show that regulation of the introduced chimeric gene in transgenic plants was characteristic of the LHCP gene itself.
20502443	The architecture of the panicle, including grain size and panicle morphology, directly determines grain yield. Panicle erectness, which is selected for achieving ideal plant architecture in the northern part of China, has drawn increasing attention of rice breeders. Here, dense and erect panicle 2 (dep2) mutant, which shows a dense and erect panicle phenotype, was identified. DEP2 encodes a plant-specific protein without any known functional domain. Expression profiling of DEP2 revealed that it is highly expressed in young tissues, with most abundance in young panicles. Morphological and expression analysis indicated that mutation in DEP2 mainly affects the rapid elongation of rachis and primary and secondary branches, but does not impair the initiation or formation of panicle primordia. Further analysis suggests that decrease of panicle length in dep2 is caused by a defect in cell proliferation during the exponential elongation of panicle. Despite a more compact plant type in the dep2 mutant, no significant alteration in grain production was found between wild type and dep2 mutant. Therefore, the study of DEP2 not only strengthens our understanding of the molecular genetic basis of panicle architecture but also has important implications for rice breeding.
20502488	Two studies describe how regulatory variation at the rice gene OsSPL14 can lead to altered plant morphology and improve grain yield. These studies support the possibility of improving rice yield through changing plant architecture.
20503186	In Africa, malaria is predominantly a rural disease where agriculture forms the backbone of the economy. Various agro-ecosystems and crop production systems have an impact on mosquito productivity, and hence malaria transmission intensity. This study was carried out to determine spatial and temporal variations in anopheline mosquito population and malaria transmission intensity in five villages, representing different agro-ecosystems in Mvomero district, Tanzania, so as to provide baseline information for malaria interventions. The agro-ecosystems consisted of irrigated sugarcane, flooding rice irrigation, non-flooding rice irrigation, wet savannah and dry savannah. In each setting, adult mosquitoes were sampled monthly using light traps recommended by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) from August 2004 to July 2005. A total of 35,702 female mosquitoes were collected. Anopheles gambiae sensu lato was the most abundant (58.9%) mosquito species. An. funestus accounted for 12.0% of the mosquitoes collected. There was a substantial village to village variation and seasonality in the density of Anopheles mosquito population, with peaks in May towards the end of the warm and rainy season. Significantly larger numbers of anophelines were collected from traditional flooding rice irrigation ecosystem (70.7%) than in non-flooding rice irrigation (8.6%), sugarcane (7.0%), wet savannah (7.3%) and dry savannah (6.4%). The overall sporozoite rates for An. gambiae and An. funestus were 3.4% and 2.3%, respectively. The combined overall sporozoite rate (An. gambiae+An. funestus) was 3.2%. The mean annual entomological inoculation rate (EIR) for An. gambiae s.l. was 728 infective bites per person per year and this was significantly higher in traditional flooding rice irrigation (1351) than in other agro-ecosystems. The highest EIRs for An. gambiae s.l. and An. funestus were observed during May 2005 (long rainy season) and December 2004 (short rainy season), respectively. The findings support the evidence that malaria transmission risk varies even between neighbouring villages and is influenced by agro-ecosystems. This study therefore, demonstrates the need to generate spatial and temporal data on transmission intensity on smaller scales taking into consideration agro-ecosystems that will identify area-specific transmission intensity to guide targeted control of malaria operations.
20505241	The relationship between the genetic effects of endosperm, cytoplasm and maternal plant on amylose content (AC) and amino acid contents of indica rice was studied using unconditional and conditional analysis methods. The results indicated that the protein content (PC) and brown rice weight (WBR) could significantly affect the relationships between AC and amino acid contents of rice. The phenotypic and genotypic covariances between AC and amino acid contents were most significantly negative under the interference of PC or WBR, but most of the relationships for the paired traits were not significant after excluding the influence of PC or WBR on AC. For the conditional genetic relationship analysis of different genetic systems including endosperm, cytoplasm and maternal plant, visible changes were found in many genetic correlation components between AC and amino acid content after eliminating the influences of PC, especially, for the endosperm or maternal additive effects, endosperm additive or dominance interaction effects and maternal additive interaction effects. The relationships of the paired traits conditioned on WBR were mainly controlled by the endosperm dominance or additive interaction effects.
20505262	In order to investigate the biological effects of heavy ion radiation at low doses and the different radiosensitivities of growing and non-growing plants, rice at different lift stages (dry seed, wet seed and seedling) were exposed to carbon ions at doses of 0.02, 0.2, 2 and 20 Gy. Radiobiological effects on survival, root growth and mitotic activity, as well as the induction of chromosome aberrations in root meristem, were observed. The results show that radiation exposure induces a stimulatory response at lower dose and an inhibitory response at higher dose on the mitotic activity of wet seeds and seedlings. Cytogenetic damages are induced in both seeds and seedlings by carbon ion radiation at doses as low as 0.02 Gy. Compared with seedlings, seeds are more resistant to the lethal damage and the growth rate damage by high doses of carbon ions, but are more sensitive to cytogenetic damage by low doses of irradiation. Different types of radiation induced chromosome aberrations are observed between seeds and seedlings. Based on these results, the relationships between low dose heavy ion-induced biological effects and the biological materials are discussed.
20505983	Remediation aimed at reducing human exposure to groundwater arsenic in West Bengal, one of the regions most impacted by this environmental hazard, are currently largely focussed on reducing arsenic in drinking water. Rice and cooking of rice, however, have also been identified as important or potentially important exposure routes. Quantifying the relative importance of these exposure routes is critically required to inform the prioritisation and selection of remediation strategies. The aim of our study, therefore, was to determine the relative contributions of drinking water, rice and cooking of rice to human exposure in three contrasting areas of West Bengal with different overall levels of exposure to arsenic, viz. high (Bhawangola-I Block, Murshidibad District), moderate (Chakdha Block, Nadia District) and low (Khejuri-I Block, Midnapur District). Arsenic exposure from water was highly variable, median exposures being 0.02 μg/kg/d (Midnapur), 0.77 μg/kg/d (Nadia) and 2.03 μg/kg/d (Murshidabad). In contrast arsenic exposure from cooked rice was relatively uniform, with median exposures being 0.30 μg/kg/d (Midnapur), 0.50 μg/kg/d (Nadia) and 0.84 μg/kg/d (Murshidabad). Cooking rice typically resulted in arsenic exposures of lower magnitude, indeed in Midnapur, median exposure from cooking was slightly negative. Water was the dominant route of exposure in Murshidabad, both water and rice were major exposure routes in Nadia, whereas rice was the dominant exposure route in Midnapur. Notwithstanding the differences in balance of exposure routes, median excess lifetime cancer risk for all the blocks were found to exceed the USEPA regulatory threshold target cancer risk level of 10(-4)-10(-6). The difference in balance of exposure routes indicate a difference in balance of remediation approaches in the three districts.
20506579	The main objective of this work was to compare the applicability of the single leaf (the uppermost leaf L1 and the third uppermost leaf L3) modified simple ratio (mSR(705) index) and the leaf positional difference in the vegetation index between L1 and L3 (mSR(705L1)-mSR(705L3)) in detecting nitrogen (N)-overfertilized rice plants. A field experiment consisting of three rice genotypes and five N fertilization levels (0, 75, 180, 285, and 390 kg N/ha) was conducted at Xiaoshan, Hangzhou, Zhejiang Province, China in 2008. The hyperspectral reflectance (350-2500 nm) and the chlorophyll concentration (ChlC) of L1 and L3 were measured at different stages. The mSR(705L1) and mSR(705L3) indices appeared not to be highly sensitive to the N rates, especially when the N rate was high (above 180 kg N/ha). The mean mSR(705L1)-mSR(705L3) across the genotypes increased significantly (P<0.05) or considerably from 180 to 285 kg N/ha treatment and from 285 to 390 kg N/ha treatment at all the stages. Also, use of the difference (mSR(705L1)-mSR(705L3)) greatly reduced the influence of the stages and genotypes in assessing the N status with reflectance data. The results of this study show that the N-overfertilized rice plants can be effectively detected with the leaf positional difference in the mSR(705) index.
20507436	SUMMARY Gray leaf spot of perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) is a severe foliar disease caused by the ascomycete fungus Magnaporthe oryzae (formerly known as Magnaporthe grisea). Control of gray leaf spot is completely dependent on the use of fungicides because currently available perennial ryegrass cultivars lack genetic resistance to this disease. M. oryzae isolates from perennial ryegrass (prg) were unable to cause disease on rice cultivars CO39 and 51583, and instead triggered a hypersensitive response. Southern hybridization analysis of DNA from over 50 gray leaf spot isolates revealed that all of them contain sequences corresponding to AVR1-CO39, a host specificity gene that confers avirulence to rice cultivar CO39, which carries the corresponding resistance gene Pi-CO39(t). There was also an almost complete lack of restriction site polymorphism at the avirulence locus. Cloning and sequencing of the AVR1-CO39 gene (AVR1-CO39(Lp)) from 16 different gray leaf spot isolates revealed just two point mutations, both of which were located upstream of the predicted open reading frame. When an AVR1-CO39(Lp) gene copy was transferred into ML33, a rice pathogenic isolate that is highly virulent to rice cultivar CO39, the transformants were unable to cause disease on CO39 but retained their virulence to 51583, a rice cultivar that lacks Pi-CO39(t). These data demonstrate that the AVR1-CO39 gene in the gray leaf spot pathogens is functional, and suggest that interaction of AVR1-CO39(Lp) and Pi-CO39(t) is responsible, at least in part, for the host specificity expressed on CO39. This indicates that it may be possible to use the Pi-CO39(t) resistance gene as part of a transgenic strategy to complement the current deficiency of gray leaf spot resistance in prg. Furthermore, our data indicate that, if Pi-CO39(t) can function in prg, the resistance provided should be broadly effective against a large proportion of the gray leaf spot pathogen population.
20507439	SUMMARY Generally, Magnaporthe oryzae, the causal agent of rice blast disease, is considered to be a typical leaf-infecting plant pathogenic fungus. However, it was recently reported that M. oryzae shares many characteristics in common with root-infecting pathogens and indeed was able to infect roots. Here, we report on studies testing for the capacity of roots of rice and barley to resist infections with M. oryzae. We established that roots of rice plants were colonized by M. oryzae in a manner which is different from the gene-for-gene specificity seen in leaves for the same genotypes. Furthermore, treatment of rice seedlings with benzo-(1,2,3)-thiadiazole-7-carbothioic acid S-methyl ester (BTH), a chemical that protects leaves effectively against blast by conditioning acquired resistance, was not able to prevent colonization of roots by M. oryzae although a reduction in disease levels was observed. Moreover, BTH was not able to protect barley roots against infection with M. oryzae. Taken together, our results suggest that although roots show intrinsic variation in their ability to resist colonization by M. oryzae, neither gene-for-gene incompatibility nor aquired resistance are as effective at blocking the pathogen as they are in leaves.
20507449	SUMMARY Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae and Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzicola cause bacterial blight and bacterial leaf streak of rice (Oryza sativa), which constrain production of this staple crop in much of Asia and parts of Africa. Tremendous progress has been made in characterizing the diseases and breeding for resistance. X. oryzae pv. oryzae causes bacterial blight by invading the vascular tissue, while X. oryzae pv. oryzicola causes bacterial leaf streak by colonizing the parenchyma. In rice there are 29 major genes for resistance to bacterial blight, but so far only a few quantitative resistance loci for bacterial leaf streak. Over 30 races of X. oryzae pv. oryzae have been reported. Both pathogens exhibit genetic variation among isolates. Mechanisms of pathogenesis and resistance have begun to be elucidated. Members of the AvrBs3/PthA family of transcription activator-like effectors play a major role in the virulence of X. oryzae pv. oryzae and possibly X. oryzae pv. oryzicola. Cloning of six rice resistance genes for bacterial blight and one from maize effective against bacterial leaf streak has uncovered a diversity of structure and function, some shared by genes involved in defence in animals. This article reviews research that spans a century. It also presents a perspective on challenges for sustainable control, and opportunities that interactions of X. oryzae pathovars with rice present as models for understanding fundamental aspects of bacterial pathogenesis of plants and plant disease resistance, as well as other aspects of plant and microbial biology, with implications also for animal innate immunity.
20507456	SUMMARY Sheath blight, caused by the fungus Rhizoctonia solani, is a major disease of rice world-wide, but little is known about the host response to infection. The objective of this study was to identify proteins and DNA markers in resistant and susceptible rice associated with response to infection by R. solani. Replicated two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis experiments were conducted to detect proteins differentially expressed under inoculated and non-inoculated conditions. Tandem mass spectra analysis using electrospray ionization quadrupole-time of flight mass spectrometry (ESI Q-TOF MS) was carried out for protein identification with the NCBI non-redundant protein database. Seven proteins were increased after inoculation in both susceptible and resistant plants. Six of the seven proteins were identified with presumed antifungal, photosynthetic and proteolytic activities. An additional 14 proteins were detected in the response of the resistant line. Eleven of the 14 proteins were identified with presumed functions relating to antifungal activity, signal transduction, energy metabolism, photosynthesis, molecular chaperone, proteolysis and antioxidation. The induction of 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/isomerase was detected for the first time in resistant rice plants after pathogen challenge, suggesting a defensive role of this enzyme in rice against attack by R. solani. The chromosomal locations of four induced proteins were found to be in close physical proximity to genetic markers for sheath blight resistance in two genetic mapping populations. The proteomic and genetic results from this study indicate a complex response of rice to challenge by R. solani that involves simultaneous induction of proteins from multiple defence pathways.
20507457	SUMMARY The transient assay system based on mesophyll or cultured cell-derived protoplasts has been exploited in several plant species and has become a powerful tool for rapid gene functional analysis and biochemical manipulations. However, the system has not been widely used in rice owing to the difficulties in large-scale isolation of viable rice protoplasts from leaves or suspension-cultured cells. Here, we describe a significantly improved method to isolate a large number of protoplasts from stem and sheath tissues of both young and mature plants. High-level coexpression of multiple constructs and efficient suppression of exogenous and endogenous genes were observed in the stem- and sheath-derived protoplasts. A transient green fluorescent protein and luciferase-based reporter system for defence-related genes expression analysis has been established, which is useful for screening and characterizing genes involved in rice defence signalling pathways. Furthermore, a protoplast-based bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC) system for the detection of protein-protein interactions in living rice cells was developed. The YFP complementation of two split-YFP halves mediated by homodimerization of the GUS and SPIN1, a cell-death related protein, was observed in transfected protoplasts. In combination with genetic, genomic and proteomic approaches, the established versatile protoplast transient assay system will facilitate large-scale functional analysis of defence-related genes in rice.
20507481	SUMMARY The RaxHR two-component regulatory system (TCS) of the rice pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae is required for AvrXa21 activity. RaxH is a typical transmembrane histidine protein kinase (HK), whereas RaxR is its concomitant response regulator (RR). Here, we report the isolation of soluble, active amounts of recombinant His-tagged full-length RaxH and RaxR following growth of Escherichia coli over-expressing strains in the presence of sorbitol and glycine betaine. Full-length His-RaxH showed similar autophosphorylation activities to that of a truncated version of the protein (His-t-RaxH), lacking the N-terminal transmembrane region. Transphosphorylation assays revealed that only full-length RaxH was able to induce phosphorylation of His-RaxR, indicating that the N-terminal region of RaxH may be required for transphosphorylation of RaxR. Using site-directed mutagenesis we also demonstrated that residues histidine 222 in RaxH and aspartate 51 in RaxR are essential for phosphorylation activities of these proteins. Utilization of compatible solutes may be widely applied for purification of soluble, active recombinant transmembrane proteins, and in particular for purification of transmembrane HKs.
20507488	SUMMARY Iron is an essential element for the growth of nearly all organisms. In order to overcome the problem of its low bioavailability, microorganisms (including fungi) secrete siderophores, high-affinity iron chelators. As the acquisition of iron is also a key step in infection processes, siderophores have been considered as potential virulence factors in several host-pathogen interactions. Most fungi produce siderophores of the hydroxamate-type, which are synthesized by non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs). Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, produces ferricrocin as intracellular storage siderophore and excretes coprogens. In the M. grisea genome we identified SSM1, an NRPS gene, and a gene encoding an l-ornithine N5-monooxygenase (OMO1) that is clustered with SSM1 and responsible for catalysing the first step in siderophore biosynthesis, the N(5) hydroxylation of ornithine. Disruption of SSM1 confirmed that the gene encodes ferricrocin synthetase. Pathogenicity of these mutants towards rice was reduced, suggesting a role of this siderophore in pathogenicity of M. grisea.
20507492	SUMMARY We functionally analysed two Nep1-like protein (NLP) genes from Botrytis elliptica (a specialized pathogen of lily), encoding proteins homologous to the necrosis and ethylene-inducing protein (NEP1) from Fusarium oxysporum. Single gene replacement mutants were made for BeNEP1 and BeNEP2, providing the first example of transformation and successful targeted mutagenesis in this fungus. The virulence of both mutants on lily leaves was not affected. BeNEP1 and BeNEP2 were individually expressed in the yeast Pichia pastoris, and the necrosis-inducing activity was tested by infiltration of both proteins into leaves of several monocots and eudicots. Necrotic symptoms developed on the eudicots tobacco, Nicotiana benthamiana and Arabidopsis thaliana, and cell death was induced in tomato cell suspensions. No necrotic symptoms developed on leaves of the monocots rice, maize and lily. These results support the hypothesis that the necrosis-inducing activity of NLPs is limited to eudicots. We conclude that NLPs are not essential virulence factors and they do not function as host-selective toxins for B. elliptica.
20507519	In Gram-negative bacteria a typical quorum sensing (QS) system usually involves the production and response to acylated homoserine lactones (AHLs). An AHL QS system is most commonly mediated by a LuxI family AHL synthase and a LuxR family AHL response regulator. This study reports for the first time the presence of a LuxR family-type regulator in Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), which has been designated as OryR. The primary structure of OryR contains the typical signature domains of AHL QS LuxR family response regulators: an AHL-binding and a HTH DNA binding motif. The oryR gene is conserved among 26 Xoo strains and is also present in the genomes of close relatives X. campestris pv. campestris and X. axonopodis pv. citri. Disrupting oryR in three Xoo strains resulted in a significant reduction of rice virulence. The wild-type Xoo strains do not seem to produce AHLs and analysis of the Xoo sequenced genomes did not reveal the presence of a LuxI-family AHL synthase. The OryR protein was shown to be induced by macerated rice and affected the production of two secreted proteins: a cell-wall-degrading cellobiosidase and a 20-kDa protein of unknown function. By expressing and purifying OryR it was then observed that it was solubilized when grown in the presence of rice extract indicating that there could be a molecule(s) in rice which binds OryR. The role of OryR as a possible in planta induced LuxR family regulator is discussed.
20507561	The complexity of the wheat genome has resulted from waves of retrotransposable element insertions. Gene deletions and disruptions generated by the fast replacement of repetitive elements in wheat have resulted in disruption of colinearity at a micro (sub-megabase) level among the cereals. In view of genomic changes that are possible within a given time span, conservation of genes between species tends to imply an important functional or regional constraint that does not permit a change in genomic structure. The ctg1034 contig completed in this paper was initially studied because it was assigned to the Sr2 resistance locus region, but detailed mapping studies subsequently assigned it to the long arm of 3B and revealed its unusual features. BAC shotgun sequencing of the hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum cv. Chinese Spring) genome has been used to assemble a group of 15 wheat BACs from the chromosome 3B physical map FPC contig ctg1034 into a 783,553 bp genomic sequence. This ctg1034 sequence was annotated for biological features such as genes and transposable elements. A three-gene island was identified among >80% repetitive DNA sequence. Using bioinformatics analysis there were no observable similarity in their gene functions. The ctg1034 gene island also displayed complete conservation of gene order and orientation with syntenic gene islands found in publicly available genome sequences of Brachypodium distachyon, Oryza sativa, Sorghum bicolor and Zea mays, even though the intergenic space and introns were divergent. We propose that ctg1034 is located within the heterochromatic C-band region of deletion bin 3BL7 based on the identification of heterochromatic tandem repeats and presence of significant matches to chromodomain-containing gypsy LTR retrotransposable elements. We also speculate that this location, among other highly repetitive sequences, may account for the relative stability in gene order and orientation within the gene island.Sequence data from this article have been deposited with the GenBank Data Libraries under accession no. GQ422824.
20507633	Pollen development from the microspore involves a series of coordinated cellular events, and the resulting mature pollen has a specialized function to quickly germinate, produce a polar-growth pollen tube derived from the vegetative cell, and deliver two sperm cells into the embryo sac for double fertilization. The gene expression profiles of developing and germinated pollen have been characterised by use of the eudicot model plant Arabidopsis. Rice, one of the most important cereal crops, has been used as an excellent monocot model. A comprehensive analysis of transcriptome profiles of developing and germinated pollen in rice is important to understand the conserved and diverse mechanism underlying pollen development and germination in eudicots and monocots. We used Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array to comprehensively analyzed the dynamic changes in the transcriptomes of rice pollen at five sequential developmental stages from microspores to germinated pollen. Among the 51,279 transcripts on the array, we found 25,062 pollen-preferential transcripts, among which 2,203 were development stage-enriched. The diversity of transcripts decreased greatly from microspores to mature and germinated pollen, whereas the number of stage-enriched transcripts displayed a "U-type" change, with the lowest at the bicellular pollen stage; and a transition of overrepresented stage-enriched transcript groups associated with different functional categories, which indicates a shift in gene expression program at the bicellular pollen stage. About 54% of the now-annotated rice F-box protein genes were expressed preferentially in pollen. The transcriptome profile of germinated pollen was significantly and positively correlated with that of mature pollen. Analysis of expression profiles and coexpressed features of the pollen-preferential transcripts related to cell cycle, transcription, the ubiquitin/26S proteasome system, phytohormone signalling, the kinase system and defense/stress response revealed five expression patterns, which are compatible with changes in major cellular events during pollen development and germination. A comparison of pollen transcriptomes between rice and Arabidopsis revealed that 56.6% of the rice pollen preferential genes had homologs in Arabidopsis genome, but 63.4% of these homologs were expressed, with a small proportion being expressed preferentially, in Arabidopsis pollen. Rice and Arabidopsis pollen had non-conservative transcription factors each. Our results demonstrated that rice pollen expressed a set of reduced but specific transcripts in comparison with vegetative tissues, and the number of stage-enriched transcripts displayed a "U-type" change during pollen development, with the lowest at the bicellular pollen stage. These features are conserved in rice and Arabidopsis. The shift in gene expression program at the bicellular pollen stage may be important to the transition from earlier cell division to later pollen maturity. Pollen at maturity pre-synthesized transcripts needed for germination and early pollen tube growth. The transcription regulation associated with pollen development would have divergence between the two species. Our results also provide novel insights into the molecular program and key components of the regulatory network regulating pollen development and germination.
20508755	While several observational studies in European countries have shown that higher monetary diet cost is associated with healthier diets, information on the relationship of cost to diet quality in other countries is sparse, including Japan. This cross-sectional study examined the association between monetary diet cost and dietary intake in a group of pregnant Japanese women. Subjects were 596 pregnant Japanese housewives. Dietary intake was estimated using a validated, self-administered, comprehensive diet history questionnaire. Monetary diet cost was calculated using retail food prices. Values of monetary diet cost and nutrient and food intake were energy-adjusted using the density method. Monetary diet cost was associated positively with the intake of protein, total fat, saturated fatty acids, dietary fiber, cholesterol, sodium, potassium, calcium, magnesium, iron, vitamins A, D, E, C, and folate, and inversely with that of carbohydrate. For foods, cost was associated positively with the intake of potatoes, pulses and nuts, fish and shellfish, meat, dairy products, vegetables, and fruits, and inversely with that of rice and bread. No association was seen for noodles, confectioneries and sugars, fats and oils, or eggs. Cost was also associated inversely with dietary energy density. In conclusion, monetary diet cost was associated with not only favorable aspects of diet, including a higher intake of dietary fiber, key vitamins and minerals, fruits, and vegetables and lower dietary energy density, but also unfavorable aspects, including a higher intake of fat and sodium and lower intake of carbohydrate and rice, in a group of pregnant Japanese women.
20509639	Accurate description of reactions between propyl radicals and molecular oxygen is an essential prerequisite for modeling of low-temperature propane oxidation because their multiple reaction pathways either accelerate the oxidation process via chain branching or inhibit it by forming relatively stable products. The CBS-QB3 level of theory was used to construct potential energy surfaces for n-C(3)H(7) + O(2) and i-C(3)H(7) + O(2). High-pressure rate constants were calculated using transition state theory with corrections for tunneling and hindered rotations. These results were used to derive pressure- and temperature-dependent rate constants for the various channels of these reactions under the framework of the Quantum Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel (QRRK) and the modified strong collision (MSC) theories. This procedure resulted in a thermodynamically consistent C(3)H(7) + O(2) submechanism, which was either used directly or as part of a larger extended detailed kinetic mechanism to predict the loss of propyl and the product yields of propylene and HO(2) over a wide range of temperatures, pressures, and residence times. The overall good agreement between predicted and experimental data suggests that this reaction subset is reliable and should be able to properly account for the reactions of propyl radicals with O(2) in propane oxidation. It is also demonstrated that for most conditions of practical interest only a small subset of reactions (e.g., isomerization, concerted elimination of HO(2), and stabilization) controls the oxidation kinetics, which makes it possible to considerably simplify the mechanism. Moreover, we observed strong similarities in the rate coefficients within each reaction class, suggesting the potential for development of relatively simple rate constant estimation rules that could be applied to analogous reactions involving hydrocarbon radicals that are too large to allow accurate detailed electronic structure calculations.
20510322	The 2D-DIGE (2-Dimensional Fluorescence Difference Gel Electrophoresis) method was applied to proteomic phenotyping of natural variants in 10 varieties of rice (Nipponbare, Koshihikari, Sasanishiki, Akitakomachi, Hitomebore, Hinohikari, Kasalath, Rexark, Bleiyo, Cho-ko) from the world rice collection (WRC) in the GenBank of the National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences (NIAS), Japan. Salt-soluble protein extracts of Nipponbare brown rice were labeled with Cy2 fluorochrome and used as an internal standard. Protein extracts from nine other rice varieties were labeled with Cy3 or Cy5 fluorochrome and applied to 2D-PAGE (13cm gel length) analysis. Approximately 700 spots of rice proteins were observed. Fluorescence intensities of each of these spots for the nine rice varieties were expressed as relative ratios to that of Nipponbare. Statistical analysis revealed the spot numbers of five Japanese rice varieties above threshold five (relative ratio of each variety to Nipponbare exceeded 5-fold or was less than 1/5) to be less than three, while those of four varieties from other countries were more than five (especially, Kasalath which was 29 and Bleiyo which was 23). The 2D-DIGE method seems to be useful for analyzing natural varieties of different cultivars and also for comparing the expression of allergen proteins.
20510432	In this paper we studied in the laboratory the effect of MCPA herbicide at a rate of 1.5lha(-1) (manufactures rate recommended) on biological properties of a Plagic Antrosol amended with four biostimulants (WCDS, wheat condensed distillers soluble; PA-HE, hydrolyzed poultry feathers; CGHE, carob germ enzymatic extract; and RB, rice bran extract). Seven hundred grams of soil were mixed with WCDS at a rate of 10%, CGHE at a rate of 4.7%, PA-HE at a rate of 4.3%, and RB at a rate of 4.4%, respectively, in order to applying the same amount of organic matter to the soil (16.38 g organic matter). An unamended polluted and amended non-polluted soil were used as control. For all treatments, the soil ergosterol, dehydrogenase, urease, and phosphatase activities were measured at two incubation times (0 and 60 d). The 16S rDNA-DGGE profiles in all treatments were determined at the beginning and end of the incubation period. The results indicated that at the end of the incubation period and compared with the control soil, the dehydrogenase, urease and phosphatase activities and ergosterol decreased 39.3%, 20%, 15.7% and 56.5%, respectively in the non-organic amended polluted soil. The application of organic matter to unpolluted soil increased the enzymatic activities and ergosterol. However, this stimulation was higher in the soil amended with RB, followed by PA-HE, WCDS and CGHE. The application of herbicide in organic-amended soils decreased the enzymatic activities and ergosterol content. However, this decrease was lower than for the non-amended herbicide polluted soil. Possibly the low molecular weight protein content easily assimilated by soil microorganisms and the adsorption capacity of humic substances are responsible for less inhibition of these enzyme activities and soil ergosterol. The 16S rDNA-DGGE profiles indicated that herbicide did not negatively affect soil bacterial biodiversity.
20511295	Establishment of adaxial-abaxial polarity is essential for lateral organ development. The mechanisms underlying the polarity establishment in the stamen remain unclear, whereas those in the leaf are well understood. Here, we investigated a rod-like lemma (rol) mutant of rice (Oryza sativa), in which the development of the stamen and lemma is severely compromised. We found that the rod-like structure of the lemma and disturbed anther patterning resulted from defects in the regulation of adaxial-abaxial polarity. Gene isolation indicated that the rol phenotype was caused by a weak mutation in SHOOTLESS2 (SHL2), which encodes an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase and functions in trans-acting small interfering RNA (ta-siRNA) production. Thus, ta-siRNA likely plays an important role in regulating the adaxial-abaxial polarity of floral organs in rice. Furthermore, we found that the spatial expression patterns of marker genes for adaxial-abaxial polarity are rearranged during anther development in the wild type. After this rearrangement, a newly formed polarity is likely to be established in a new developmental unit, the theca primordium. This idea is supported by observations of abnormal stamen development in the shl2-rol mutant. By contrast, the stamen filament is likely formed by abaxialization. Thus, a unique regulatory mechanism may be involved in regulating adaxial-abaxial polarity in stamen development.
20511535	Palm oil is the world's most important vegetable oil in terms of production quantity. Indonesia, the world's largest palm-oil producer, plans to double its production by 2020, with unclear implications for the other national priorities of food (rice) production, forest and biodiversity protection, and carbon conservation. We modeled the outcomes of alternative development scenarios and show that every single-priority scenario had substantial tradeoffs associated with other priorities. The exception was a hybrid approach wherein expansion targeted degraded and agricultural lands that are most productive for oil palm, least suitable for food cultivation, and contain the lowest carbon stocks. This approach avoided any loss in forest or biodiversity and substantially ameliorated the impacts of oil-palm expansion on carbon stocks (limiting net loss to 191.6 million tons) and annual food production capacity (loss of 1.9 million tons). Our results suggest that the environmental and land-use tradeoffs associated with oil-palm expansion can be largely avoided through the implementation of a properly planned and spatially explicit development strategy.
20512325	We have reported for the first time that agricultural and cellulosic waste, i.e., rice straw was directly applied to methanogenic bioreactors containing carbon fiber textiles (CFT) as supporting material. Addition of CFT to the methanogenic bioreactors enhanced the conversion of dichromate chemical oxygen demand of the substrate to methane (41%) to a greater extent than bioreactors without CFT (9%). In addition, removal of rice straw as a suspended solid was increased from 31% (in bioreactors without CFT) to 57% (in those with CFT). Methanogenic 16S rRNA gene analysis showed that the abundance of acetoclastic methanogen, genus Methanosarcina, was about 11 times higher in bioreactors with CFT (suspended fraction plus retained fraction to CFT) than in bioreactors without CFT (suspended fraction), resulting in lower concentration of acetate in bioreactors with CFT (0.4 mM) than in those without CFT (29.7 mM). On the other hand, the abundance of hydrogenotrophic methanogen, genus Methanobacterium, in bioreactors with CFT was similar to those without CFT. Bacterial communities in bioreactors with CFT were different from those in bioreactors without CFT. Our results indicated that specific microbial community and cooperative relationships between microorganisms in reactors containing CFT facilitated efficient decomposition of rice straw and its conversion to methane.
20512559	Low temperature at the booting stage is a serious abiotic stress in rice, and cold tolerance is a complex trait controlled by many quantitative trait loci (QTL). A QTL for cold tolerance at the booting stage in cold-tolerant near-isogenic rice line ZL1929-4 was analyzed. A total of 647 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers distributed across 12 chromosomes were used to survey for polymorphisms between ZL1929-4 and the cold-sensitive japonica cultivar Towada, and nine were polymorphic. Single marker analysis revealed that markers on chromosome 7 were associated with cold tolerance. By interval mapping using an F(2) population from ZL1929-4 x Towada, a QTL for cold tolerance was detected on the long arm of chromosome 7. The QTL explained 9 and 21% of the phenotypic variances in the F(2) and F(3) generations, respectively. Recombinant plants were screened for two flanking markers, RM182 and RM1132, in an F(2) population with 2,810 plants. Two-step substitution mapping suggested that the QTL was located in a 92-kb interval between markers RI02905 and RM21862. This interval was present in BAC clone AP003804. We designated the QTL as qCTB7 (quantitative trait locus for cold tolerance at the booting stage on chromosome 7), and identified 12 putative candidate genes.
20512651	To analyze fruit set and early fruit (caryopsis) development in rice, we established an in vitro spikelet culture system. The ovary of cultured pollinated spikelets grew rapidly and developed into fruits with an embryo and endosperm. When unpollinated spikelets were cultured on a medium containing 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid, parthenocarpic fruits lacking an embryo and endosperm developed. The number and size of the cells in the pericarp of parthenocarpic fruits were almost identical to those of fruits induced by pollination, and degeneration of nucellus tissue was observed in both pollinated and parthenocarpic fruits. These results suggested that ovary growth was induced through increased auxin content in the spikelets. Quantitative measurement of indole-3-acetic acid (IAA) content in the spikelets indicated that the IAA level increased after pollination. Further analysis of IAA contents in the ovary and rachilla-pedicel of cultured spikelets suggested that fruit development is associated with IAA synthesis in the ovary following pollination/fertilization and subsequent transport of IAA from the ovary to the rachilla-pedicel. Partial or complete removal of the rachilla and/or pedicel prior to spikelet culture greatly inhibited fruit development. These results indicated that the rachilla and pedicel are essential for rice fruit development. AUX/IAA and ARF genes that might be involved in rice fruit development were identified through transcriptome analysis.
20512907	To investigate the feasibility of rice pads for improving nonuniform fat suppression in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the neck, shoulder, and elbow using the chemical shift selective (CHESS) technique. CHESS imaging of the neck, shoulder, and elbow was performed on 10 healthy volunteers with and without the use of rice pads. Images were visually assessed by one radiologist and one radiologic technologist using a four-point scale. Results were compared using Wilcoxon's signed rank sum test. Images with and without rice pads were rated 3.9 and 1.5 for the neck (P = 0.002), 3.85 and 2.5 for the shoulder (P = 0.002), and 3.4 and 2.45 for the elbow (P = 0.004). Fat-suppressed images obtained using the CHESS technique were significantly improved by rice pads for the neck, shoulder, and elbow, indicating that image deterioration with CHESS caused by magnetic field nonuniformity can be improved by rice pads in all body areas.
20513284	The primary purposes of this article were to examine the distributions and correlation between conditions of sleep and the quality of life, so as to explore the risk factors of abnormal sleep among elderly in the rural areas of Anhui province. Elderly who aged 60 years or more (n = 1680) were randomly selected from rural areas in Anhui province. Conditions of sleep and quality of life of the subjects were assessed independently, using the pittsburgh sleep quality index (PSQI) scale and SF-36 scale. A generalized logistic model analysis was performed, using sleep-related factors as explanatory variables. The average PSQI score was 7.43 +/- 4.13. Persons whose sleep conditions were graded as well, common or poor were accounted for 29.4%, 24.3%, 46.3%, respectively. Sex and sleep quality were different in terms of quality of life among all the factors(P < 0.05). Men had better quality than women, and poor sleepers had poorer quality of life as compared to the one with better conditions. Factors as being married/living alone/economically independent, having better social function, often eating meat or wheat were significant predictors for having good sleep conditions. However, factors as better education received, living alone, with poor vitality/general health, having chronic diseases (back pain, coronary heart or stomach disease), less meat intake, rice as major foods etc. were predictors for poorer sleeping condition. Our data showed that it was unsatisfactory on the quality of sleep among the rural elderly in Anhui province. Conditions on general, health and nutrition should be improved in order to prevent the poor sleep condition.
20513328	The glycemic index (GI) is routinely measured 120 minutes after food intake (GI120). The purpose of this prospective open label study was to assess (1) the dynamics of glycemia over the 210 minutes following food consumption and (2) the evolution of GIs based on 120-, 150-, 180-, and 210-minute glycemic profiles. Twenty healthy subjects (mean +/- SE; 21.9 +/- 1.39 years of age; body mass index 23.6 +/- 0.63 kg/m(2); 7 men and 13 women) completed the study. Each subject consumed 10 different foods with known GI120 on three separate occasions at four different times of day according to a defined meal plan over a 9-day period; 32 meals were evaluated. The GIs for intervals of 120, 150, 180 and 210 minutes after food consumption were determined using a continuous glucose monitoring system (CGMS) to measure glycemia. The Wilcoxon signed-rank test was applied to compare the GIs. Glycemia returned to baseline within 120 minutes for honey and tomato soup; within 210 minutes for white bread, choco-rice cookies, fish and potatoes, wafers, and meat ravioli with cheese; and later for dark chocolate, apricot dumplings, and choco-wheat cookies. The extended GIs were higher than the respective GI120s in eight of the foods. The 120-minute glycemic index fails to fully account for changes in glycemia after ingestion of a mixed meal because glycemia remains above baseline for a longer period. The CGMS is a convenient method to determine the glucose response/GIs over intervals extended up to 210 minutes, which is adequate time for the absorption of most foods.
20513633	A double haploid (DH) population, which consists of 120 lines derived from anther culture of a typical indica and japonica hybrid 'CJ06'/'TN1', was used to investigate the genetic basis for rice leaffolder resistance. Using a constructed molecular linkage map, five QTLs for rolled leaves were detected on chromosomes 1, 2, 3, 4, and 8. The positive alleles from CJ06 on chromosomes 3, 4, and 8 increased the resistance to rice leaffolder, and the alleles from TN1 on chromosomes 1 and 2 also enhanced resistance to leaffolder. The interactions between QTLs were identified and tested, and four conditional interactions were acquired for resistance to rice leaffolder. These loci were located on chromosomes 2, 9, 10, and 11, respectively. QTL pyramiding indicated that the positive alleles affect resistance to leaffolder. The prospective application of this data in rice breeding was also discussed.
20513973	Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry is one of the most powerful methods for the identification and detection of chemical structures of lipids. In this study, we attempted to identify the chemical structures of glucosylceramides from maize, rice, mushroom (maitake) and sea cucumber by liquid chromatography-ion trap mass spectrometry. For structural analysis of glucosylceramides, [M+H]+, [M+H-18]+ or [M+H-162]+ in the positive scan mode was used for MS/MS analysis to obtain product ion spectra. The typical signals which are characteristic for the sphingoid base moieties were observed while the isomers could not be distinguished. This method should be useful for the structural determination of diverse glucosylceramide molecular species.
20514216	Natural variation provides a valuable resource to study the genetic regulation of quantitative traits. In quantitative trait locus (QTL) analyses this variation, captured in segregating mapping populations, is used to identify the genomic regions affecting these traits. The identification of the causal genes underlying QTLs is a major challenge for which the detection of gene expression differences is of major importance. By combining genetics with large scale expression profiling (i.e. genetical genomics), resulting in expression QTLs (eQTLs), great progress can be made in connecting phenotypic variation to genotypic diversity. In this review we discuss examples from human, mouse, Drosophila, yeast and plant research to illustrate the advances in genetical genomics, with a focus on understanding the regulatory mechanisms underlying natural variation. With their tolerance to inbreeding, short generation time and ease to generate large families, plants are ideal subjects to test new concepts in genetics. The comprehensive resources which are available for Arabidopsis make it a favorite model plant but genetical genomics also found its way to important crop species like rice, barley and wheat. We discuss eQTL profiling with respect to cis and trans regulation and show how combined studies with other 'omics' technologies, such as metabolomics and proteomics may further augment current information on transcriptional, translational and metabolomic signaling pathways and enable reconstruction of detailed regulatory networks. The fast developments in the 'omics' area will offer great potential for genetical genomics to elucidate the genotype-phenotype relationships for both fundamental and applied research.
20514227	In plants, cytokinin (CK) perception and signaling pathway is composed by a histidine kinase receptor (HK) and a response regulator (RR), the signal being mediated by a histidine phosphotransfer (HPt), as described in Arabidopsis, maize and rice. From database searches we identified in grapevine three HKs, three HPs, four A-type RRs and six B-type RRs, suggesting a common mechanism for grapevine. The phylogenetic analysis of these Vitis genes showed a variable but high degree of homology with Arabidopsis sequences. When sulfate was withdrawn from the culture medium (-S) of in vitro Vitis shoots, we assessed a significant reduction in shoot branching. To ascertain the crosstalk of S status with CK signaling in grapevine, control and -S grown shoots and control, -S and -CK cell suspensions were used as experimental systems. Real-time PCR was elected to quantify the expression of key genes. The expression of CK receptor genes was downregulated in -S cells while not affected in -CK cells. In differentiated shoots no response to -S was observed on those genes. A-type VvRRa4 was downregulated in -S or -CK cells while Vitis B-type RRs did not respond either to CK or S starvation. The results suggest that Vitis CK signaling pathway is affected by -S, although differently according to the model system. Transcription of Vitis apical meristem-identity genes VvWUS, VvCLV and VvSTM and axillary meristem genes VvBRC1, VvBRC2, VvLAS, VvRAX and VvREV was estimated and VvSTM and VvLAS showed to be downregulated in -S. Then, the expression levels of VvSTM and VvLAS make them strong candidates to be associated with the branching pattern of Vitis shoots in -S.
20514236	Rice is the second most important cereal crop in the world but its production suffers from saline environments in many areas since it is one of the most salt sensitive crops. However, the large divergence in tolerance between rice cultivars can be exploited to gain insights into mechanisms of salinity tolerance, for example by carrying out comparative transcriptomics studies. We recently showed that specific transporters in roots of the tolerant rice cultivar FL478 are differentially regulated compared to their counterparts in the more sensitive IR29 cultivar and that this may contribute to the observed lower Na(+) influx, reduced Na(+) translocation to the shoot, and lower Na(+):K(+) ratio observed in FL478. In this addendum we further evaluated some of the regulatory genes that are potentially important in the modulation of membrane transporters involved in rice cation homeostasis.
20514239	The signaling molecule auxin plays a central role in several aspects of plant growth and developmental processes. Underlying optimization of these processes are complex mechanisms orchestrating the expression of genes involved in controlling auxin level, movement and signalling. The small auxin-up RNA (SAUR) family comprises a large set of genes whose expressions are early auxin-responsive. However, the function of these genes is largely unknown. Loss-of-function mutants in a number of Arabidopsis SAUR genes did not show any marked phenotypic differences to wild-type plants likely due to compensatory functions of conserved members of the SAUR gene family. We have recently shown that a rice SAUR39 gene negatively regulates auxin synthesis and transport in rice. Here we propose a model that constitutive induction of SAUR39 gene expression reduces growth and seed yield in rice plants due to the presence of a lower auxin level, reduced polar auxin transport, less chlorophyll and increased sugar and anthocyanin contents. In wild-type plants, the SAUR39 gene is expressed at a low level and is transiently induced by changes in external auxin or other environmental stimuli, but within hours of this change its expression is reduced to the low constitutive level. This homeostatic mechanism is essential for optimal plant growth and seed yield and its disruption due to the constitutive overexpression of SAUR39 leads to a set of negative pleiotropic phenotypes.
20514502	Vinegar is a traditional remedy for ailments including diabetes. This study was conducted to investigate the beneficial effects of vinegar in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats. STZ-induced diabetic rats were orally administered with white rice vinegar (WRV, 2 ml/kg body weight per day, n = 6) or with an equal volume of drinking water (n = 6) for 1 month. Fasting and random blood glucose was measured from tail vein samples. Body weight, 24-h food and water intake were monitored 1 week and 1 month after STZ injection. Fasting serum insulin concentrations were assayed using ELISA. Pancreatic beta- and alpha-cell proportions were measured using immunofluorescence microscopy. Periodic acid Schiff staining was performed to access glycogen contents and histological changes in liver tissues. Compared with control animals, the WRV-treated rats had less weight loss, lower fasting and random blood glucose, higher fasting serum insulin and higher beta-cell proportion. The WRV treatment also improved fatty changes and glycogen storages in the liver of STZ rats. Oral intake of WRV improved fasting hyperglycemia and body weight loss through attenuating insulin deficiency, pancreatic beta-cell deficit, and hepatic glycogen depletion and fatty changes in STZ-induced diabetic rats.
20515077	The wide prevalence of celiac disease and wheat allergy has led to a growing demand for gluten-free foods. Rice proteins do not possess the viscoelastic properties typically found in gluten, thus making rice flour unsuitable for the production of yeast-leavened products. In the present study, we found that the addition of glutathione to rice batter improves its gas-retaining properties. Glutathione was found to prevent the formation of the disulfide-linked macromolecular protein barrier, which is reported to confer resistance to the deformation of rice batter in the baking process. Also, glutathione appeared to gelatinize rice starch at lower temperatures. Microstructure analyses of glutathione-added rice bread revealed it to have a perforated structure like wheat bread but with a smoother-looking surface. These data collectively suggest that glutathione facilitates the deformation of rice batter, thus increasing its elasticity in the early stages of bread baking and the volume of the resulting bread.
20515728	The phytohormone gibberellin acid (GA) controls many aspects of plant development. In this study, we identified proteins that are differentially expressed between the rice (Oryza sativa L.) GA-deficient cultivar, Aijiaonante, and its parental line, Nante. Proteins were extracted from rice leaf sheath and examined by 2DGE. Among more than 1200 protein spots reproducibly detected on each gel, 29 were found to be highly up-regulated by GAs in Nante, and 6 were down-regulated by GAs in Aijiaonante. These 35 proteins were identified by MALDI-TOF MS and were classified into three groups based on their putative function in metabolism, stress/defense processes and signal transduction. These data suggest that metabolic pathways are the main target of regulation by GAs during rice development. Our results provide new information about the involvement of GAs in rice development.
2051629	In order to evaluate the epidemiological characteristics of ulcerative colitis, we conducted a matched case-control study of ulcerative colitis. Fifty patients with ulcerative colitis diagnosed at three hospitals in Kyoto, Osaka and Hyogo Prefectures in Japan during 1984 and 1987 were interviewed about their habitual and pre-illness diets, personal habits, past histories and family histories. The results were compared to those for fifty healthy controls who were matched for sex and age (+/- 2 years) and participated in health-screening examinations in Kyoto or Osaka during the same period. Frequent intake of rice (4 or more bowls a day), bread (3 or more times a week), and green tea (7 or more cups a day) significantly increased the relative risk of ulcerative colitis. However, a past history of appendectomy was negatively correlated with the disease. There were no relationships between ulcerative colitis and consumption of animal foods and tobacco.
20516543	Paceilomyces farinosus is an entomogenous fungus with a powerful insecticidal activity against the larvae of Lipidoptera, Coleoptera and Hymenoptera. However, the hypoglycaemic activity of P. farinosus extract has not been studied. This study was undertaken to investigate the hypoglycaemic and anti-diabetic effects of P. farinosus (G30801) in rats with streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes given a high-fat and compared with normal rats. Rats fed with high fat diet for 2 months and injected with (30 or 50 mg STZ/kg bw) showed raised level of plasma triglyceride (TG), cholesterol, D-glucose concentration and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1C) %. The STZ-induced type 1 (T1DM) and type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in rats was further confirmed using glucose tolerance test and insulin-glucose tolerance test. P. farinosus (G30801) was fermented in different media [soybean (S), black bean (B), and rice (R)] and their extracts were tested for hypoglycaemic effect using T1DM and T2DM rats. STZ (30 and 50 mg/kg bw) could successfully induce T2DM and T1DM in rats, respectively. No change in blood glucose levels were noted in P. farinosus (R medium) treated normal rats (P < 0.05). In addition, STZ-high fat fed diabetic (T1DM and T2DM) rats when treated with P. farinosus (R medium) showed decreased blood glucose level as compared with P. farinosus extracted from B and S medium. Our findings showed hypoglycaemic effect of fermented P. farinosus (G30801) in experimental diabetes rat model fed with high fat diet.
20517324	To quantify the intake of grain and whole grain, and their food sources, as well as to investigate the age and time trends over the last decade in a sample of German children and adolescents. Dietary records from the Dortmund Nutritional and Anthropometric Longitudinally Designed (DONALD) Study were used for conducting this work. A total of 5067 3-day weighed dietary records of 821 2- to 18-year-old children and adolescents collected between 1997 and 2008 were analysed using linear mixed-effect models, in which the means of the data and the covariance structure (children of the family, repeated measurements) were modelled. Mean whole-grain intake was between 20 and 33 g/day in the sample and highest in 13-18 year olds. No whole grain intake was recorded in 19% of all dietary records. Total grain intake increased significantly with age (P<0.0001), even after adjustment for energy intake. Whole-grain intake (g/day) increased significantly with age in the unadjusted model (P<0.0001). This increase disappeared after adjustment for energy intake (P>0.05) and became a negative trend after adjustment for grain intake (P<0.01). There were no significant time trends during the study period. Bread had the highest effect on grain intake in the total sample (50%), followed by rice/pasta (21%), cake (13%), grain (9%), RTECs (5%) and muesli (2%). The whole-grain intake in this sample of German children and adolescents was far below the FBDG. The decreasing percentage of whole grain per grain intake with age contradicts the common concept of stable dietary habits during childhood and adolescents.
20517643	A survey was carried out in the North of Lao PDR to study feeding systems and the performance of pigs in smallholder systems. A total of 341 farmers from five provinces were interviewed. To feed their pigs, farmers mainly rely on feedstuffs produced on the farm and collected from areas near the village. The feedstuffs used included by-products such as rice bran and distiller's waste, planted feeds, mainly maize and cassava, and various green plant materials. The feedstuffs used are usually high in energy and low in protein content, and the only readily available protein source is green plant material. This results in nutritionally imbalanced diets and as a result poor pig performance. The average growth rate of pigs in these systems was found to be only approximately 100 g/day. The reproductive performance of sows was found to be relatively low, as is the case of local breeds in the region, with an average litter size at birth of 6.8 piglets. The mortality of piglets was as high as 50% and was a main concern of farmers. In order to improve the productivity of pigs in smallholder systems, there is a need to find alternative feed resources to improve the nutritional feed quality, and to develop management systems which are suited to the needs and practices of smallholders.
20518144
20519917	Three typical biological solid wastes, animal manure, garbage, and sewage sludge, were compared with regard for the composting process and the changes in microbial community structure. The effect of different bulking agents such as rice straw, vermiculite, sawdust, and waste paper were compared in manure compost. The differences in the microbial community were characterized by the quinone profile method. The highest mass reduction was found in garbage composting (56.8%), compared to manure and sludge at 25% and 20.2%, respectively. A quinone content of 305.2 micromol/kg was observed in the late stage of garbage composting, although the diversity index of quinone profile was 9.7, lower than that in manure composting. The predominant quinone species were found to be MK-7, which corresponds to gram positive bacteria with low G+C content such as Bacillus. The predominance of MK-7 was especially found in garbage and sludge composting process, while the increase in quinones with partially saturated long side chain was shown in late composting process of manure, which corresponded to the proliferation of Actinobacteria. The effect of different bulking agents on the composting process was much smaller than the effect of different raw materials. High organic matter content in the raw materials results in a higher microbial biomass and activity, which was connected to the high mass reduction rate.
20520727	The domestication of Asian rice (Oryza sativa) was a complex process punctuated by episodes of introgressive hybridization among and between subpopulations. Deep genetic divergence between the two main varietal groups (Indica and Japonica) suggests domestication from at least two distinct wild populations. However, genetic uniformity surrounding key domestication genes across divergent subpopulations suggests cultural exchange of genetic material among ancient farmers. In this study, we utilize a novel 1,536 SNP panel genotyped across 395 diverse accessions of O. sativa to study genome-wide patterns of polymorphism, to characterize population structure, and to infer the introgression history of domesticated Asian rice. Our population structure analyses support the existence of five major subpopulations (indica, aus, tropical japonica, temperate japonica and GroupV) consistent with previous analyses. Our introgression analysis shows that most accessions exhibit some degree of admixture, with many individuals within a population sharing the same introgressed segment due to artificial selection. Admixture mapping and association analysis of amylose content and grain length illustrate the potential for dissecting the genetic basis of complex traits in domesticated plant populations. Genes in these regions control a myriad of traits including plant stature, blast resistance, and amylose content. These analyses highlight the power of population genomics in agricultural systems to identify functionally important regions of the genome and to decipher the role of human-directed breeding in refashioning the genomes of a domesticated species.
20520764	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) and trans-acting small-interfering RNAs (tasi-RNAs) are small (20-22 nt long) RNAs (smRNAs) generated from hairpin secondary structures or antisense transcripts, respectively, that regulate gene expression by Watson-Crick pairing to a target mRNA and altering expression by mechanisms related to RNA interference. The high sequence homology of plant miRNAs to their targets has been the mainstay of miRNA prediction algorithms, which are limited in their predictive power for other kingdoms because miRNA complementarity is less conserved yet transitive processes (production of antisense smRNAs) are active in eukaryotes. We hypothesize that antisense transcription and associated smRNAs are biomarkers which can be computationally modeled for gene discovery. We explored rice (Oryza sativa) sense and antisense gene expression in publicly available whole genome tiling array transcriptome data and sequenced smRNA libraries (as well as C. elegans) and found evidence of transitivity of MIRNA genes similar to that found in Arabidopsis. Statistical analysis of antisense transcript abundances, presence of antisense ESTs, and association with smRNAs suggests several hundred Arabidopsis 'orphan' hypothetical genes are non-coding RNAs. Consistent with this hypothesis, we found novel Arabidopsis homologues of some MIRNA genes on the antisense strand of previously annotated protein-coding genes. A Support Vector Machine (SVM) was applied using thermodynamic energy of binding plus novel expression features of sense/antisense transcription topology and siRNA abundances to build a prediction model of miRNA targets. The SVM when trained on targets could predict the "ancient" (deeply conserved) class of validated Arabidopsis MIRNA genes with an accuracy of 84%, and 76% for "new" rapidly-evolving MIRNA genes. Antisense and smRNA expression features and computational methods may identify novel MIRNA genes and other non-coding RNAs in plants and potentially other kingdoms, which can provide insight into antisense transcription, miRNA evolution, and post-transcriptional gene regulation.
20520959	To investigate the effect of nutritional recovery with rice bran on energy balance, leptin and insulin levels. Weaned Wistar rats were fed on a 17% (Control - C) or 0.5% (Aproteic - A) protein diet for 12d. After this, rats were kept on a C diet (C) or recovered with control (Recovered Control - RC) or control plus recovered rice bran diet (Recovered Rice Bran - RRB). Despite the increased food intake, group A exhibited lower carcass fat associated to low serum leptin. RRB and RC groups showed lower carcass weight and energy intake and expenditure. Energy expenditure was positively associated with food intake and carcass weight. Negative correlations between HOMA-IR and energy expenditure and energy intake were observed. Nutritional recovery with rice bran did not modify energy balance, leptin and insulin levels.
20521681	Poyang Lake is situated within the East Asian Flyway, a migratory corridor for waterfowl that also encompasses Guangdong Province, China, the epicenter of highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1. The lake is the largest freshwater body in China and a significant congregation site for waterfowl; however, surrounding rice fields and poultry grazing have created an overlap with wild waterbirds, a situation conducive to avian influenza transmission. Reports of HPAI H5N1 in healthy wild ducks at Poyang Lake have raised concerns about the potential of resilient free-ranging birds to disseminate the virus. Yet the role wild ducks play in connecting regions of HPAI H5N1 outbreak in Asia is hindered by a lack of information about their migratory ecology. During 2007-08 we marked wild ducks at Poyang Lake with satellite transmitters to examine the location and timing of spring migration and identify any spatiotemporal relationship with HPAI H5N1 outbreaks. Species included the Eurasian wigeon (Anas penelope), northern pintail (Anas acuta), common teal (Anas crecca), falcated teal (Anas falcata), Baikal teal (Anas formosa), mallard (Anas platyrhynchos), garganey (Anas querquedula), and Chinese spotbill (Anas poecilohyncha). These wild ducks (excluding the resident mallard and Chinese spotbill ducks) followed the East Asian Flyway along the coast to breeding areas in northern China, eastern Mongolia, and eastern Russia. None migrated west toward Qinghai Lake (site of the largest wild bird epizootic), thus failing to demonstrate any migratory connection to the Central Asian Flyway. A newly developed Brownian bridge spatial analysis indicated that HPAI H5N1 outbreaks reported in the flyway were related to latitude and poultry density but not to the core migration corridor or to wetland habitats. Also, we found a temporal mismatch between timing of outbreaks and wild duck movements. These analyses depend on complete or representative reporting of outbreaks, but by documenting movements of wild waterfowl, we present ecological knowledge that better informs epidemiological investigations seeking to explain and predict the spread of avian influenza viruses.
20521821	Increased consumption of whole grains has been associated with reduced risk of developing major chronic diseases. These health benefits have been attributed in part to their unique phytochemicals. Previous studies on black rice mainly focused on anthocyanins. Little is known about the phytochemical profiles and antioxidant activities of different black rice varieties. The objective of this study was to determine the phytochemical profiles and antioxidant activity of rice bran samples from 12 diverse varieties of black rice. The free, bound, and total phenolic contents of black rice bran samples ranged from 2086 to 7043, from 221.2 to 382.7, and from 2365 to 7367 mg of gallic acid equiv/100 g of dry weight (DW), respectively. The percentage contribution of free phenolics to the total ranged from 88.2 to 95.6%. The average values of free, bound, and total phenolic contents of black rice bran were 8, 1.5, and 6 times higher than those of white rice bran, respectively (p < 0.05). The free, bound, and total flavonoid contents of black rice bran samples ranged from 3462 to 12061, from 126.7 to 386.9, and from 3596 to 12448 mg of catechin equiv/100 g of DW, respectively. The percentage contribution of free flavonoids to the total ranged from 96.3 to 97.6%. The average values of free, bound, and total flavonoid contents of black rice bran were 7.4, 1.9, and 6.7 times higher than those of white rice bran, respectively (p < 0.05). The free, bound, and total anthocyanin contents of black rice bran samples ranged from 1227 to 5096, from 4.89 to 8.23, and from 1231 to 5101 mg of cyanidin-3-glucoside equiv/100 g of DW, respectively. The percentage contribution of free anthocyanins to the total ranged from 99.5 to 99.9%. Cyanidin-3-glucoside, cyanidin-3-rutinoside, and peonidin-3-glucoside were detected in black rice bran samples and ranged from 736.6 to 2557, from 22.70 to 96.62, and from 100.7 to 534.2 mg/100 g of DW, respectively. The free, bound, and total antioxidant activities of black rice bran samples ranged from 476.9 to 180, from 47.91 to 79.48, and from 537.5 to 1876 mumol of Trolox equiv/g of DW, respectively. The percentage contribution of free antioxidant activity to the total ranged from 88.7 to 96.0%. The average values of free, bound, and total antioxidant activity of black rice bran were more than 8, 1.5, and 6 times higher than those of white rice bran, respectively (p < 0.05). The total antioxidant activity of black rice bran was correlated to the content of total phenolics, total flavonoids, and total anthocyanins and also was significantly correlated to the contents of cyanidin-3-glucoside, cyanidin-3-rutinoside, and peonidin-3-glucoside. These results indicate that there are significant differences in phytochemical content and antioxidant activity among the different black rice varieties. Black rice bran has higher content of phenolics, flavonoids, and anthocyanins and has higher antioxidant activity when compared to white rice bran. Interestingly, the phenolics, flavonoids, and anthocyanins of black rice bran are mainly present in free form. Knowing the phytochemical profile and antioxidant activity of black rice bran gives insights to its potential application to promote health.
20521952	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae depends on a type III secretion system (T3SS) to translocate effectors into host cells for its ability to cause bacterial blight of rice. All type III (T3) effectors with known function in X. oryzae pv. oryzae belong to a family of transcription activator-like (TAL) effectors. However, other, non-TAL-related effector genes are present in the genome, although their role in virulence and their mode of action have yet to be elucidated. Here, we report the generation of mutants for 18 non-TAL T3 effector genes and the identification of one that contributes to the virulence of strain PXO99(A). XopZ(PXO99) encodes a predicted 1,414-amino-acid protein of unknown function. PXO99(A) contains two identical copies of the gene due to a duplication of 212 kb in the genome. Strains with knockout mutations of one copy of XopZ(PXO99) did not exhibit any visible virulence defect. However, strains with mutations in both copies of XopZ(PXO99) displayed reduced virulence in terms of lesion length and bacterial multiplication compared with PXO99(A). The introduction of one genomic copy of XopZ(PXO99) restores the mutant to full virulence. Transient expression of XopZ(PXO99) in Nicotiana benthamiana leaves suppresses host basal defense, which is otherwise induced by a T3SS mutant of PXO99(A), suggesting a role for XopZ(PXO99) in interfering with host innate immunity during X. oryzae pv. oryzae infection. XopZ(PXO99)-related genes are found in all Xanthomonas spp. whose genomic sequences have been determined, suggesting a conserved role for this type of effector gene in pathogenesis of Xanthomonas spp. Our results indicate that XopZ(PXO99) encodes a novel T3 effector and contributes virulence to X. oryzae pv. oryzae strains for bacterial blight of rice.
20522174	The human NFX1 transcription factor constitutes a group of NFX1-type zinc finger proteins. It forms a central Cys-rich region with several NFX1-type zinc finger domains that have been shown to mediate DNA binding. Proteins with NFX1-type zinc fingers are found in protists, fungi, animals and plants, and may be ubiquitous in eukaryotes. This review discusses the structure and putative roles of NFX1-like proteins, with a focus on human NFX1 and Arabidopsis NFXL1 proteins. By means of manual sequence analysis and application of hidden Markov models, we demonstrate that NFX1-like proteins form a specific RING finger motif with a C(4)HC(3) Zn ligand signature and additional distinct features, suggesting that these proteins function as E3 ubiquitin ligases. Phylogenetic analysis revealed different clades of NFX1-like proteins. The plant proteins group into two distinct clades. The genomes of plants such as rice, Arabidopsis, poplar and grapevine encode one member of each clade, suggesting that the presence of two NFX1-like factors is sufficient in flowering plants. The Arabidopsis proteins presumably fine-tune opposed biotic and abiotic stress response pathways.
20522488	Several triazole-containing chemicals have previously been shown to act as efficient inhibitors of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases. To discover a strigolactone biosynthesis inhibitor, we screened a chemical library of triazole derivatives to find chemicals that induce tiller bud outgrowth of rice seedlings. We discovered a triazole-type chemical, TIS13 [2,2-dimethyl-7-phenoxy-4-(1H-1,2,4-triazol-1-yl)heptan-3-ol], which induced outgrowth of second tiller buds of wild-type seedlings, as observed for non-treated strigolactone-deficient d10 mutant seedlings. TIS13 treatment reduced strigolactone levels in both roots and root exudates in a concentration-dependent manner. Co-application of GR24, a synthetic strigolactone, with TIS13 canceled the TIS13-induced tiller bud outgrowth. Taken together, these results indicate that TIS13 inhibits strigolactone biosynthesis in rice seedlings. We propose that TIS13 is a new lead compound for the development of specific strigolactone biosynthesis inhibitors.
20522726	Heading date is one of the most important quantitative traits responsible for the domestication of rice. We compared a 155-kb reference segment of the Oryza sativa ssp. japonica cv. Nipponbare genome surrounding Hd1, a major heading date gene in rice, with orthologous regions from nine diploid Oryza species that diverged over a relatively short time frame (∼16 My) to study sequence evolution around a domestication locus. The orthologous Hd1 region from Sorghum bicolor was included to compare and contrast the evolution in a more distant relative of rice. Consistent with other observations at the adh1/adh2, monoculm1, and sh2/a1 loci in grass species, we found high gene colinearity in the Hd1 region amidst size differences that were lineage specific and long terminal repeat retrotransposon driven. Unexpectedly, the Hd1 gene was deleted in O. glaberrima, whereas the O. rufipogon and O. punctata copies had degenerative mutations, suggesting that other heading date loci might compensate for the loss or nonfunctionality of Hd1 in these species. Compared with the japonica Hd1 region, the orthologous region in sorghum exhibited micro-rearrangements including gene translocations, seven additional genes, and a gene triplication and truncation event predating the divergence from Oryza.
20523129	Basic-helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins are a large family of eukaryotic transcription factors. In plants, they have been shown to be key regulators of a diverse array of developmental and metabolic pathways. We have recently shown that the diversity of bHLH proteins in angiosperms is ancient. Most of the bHLH subfamilies present in seed plants such as Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa are also present in early diverging groups of land plants, including mosses and lycophytes. In contrast, the diversity of bHLH proteins is much lower in chlorophytes (green algae) and red algae. This suggests that the bHLH family underwent a large expansion before or soon after the appearance of the first land plants, but has subsequently remained relatively conserved throughout the evolution of plants on land. These observations support the developing paradigm that land plants (and other complex multicellular organisms) have evolved largely through the recruitment and reorganization of ancient gene regulatory networks.
20523941	The ground state, GS, geometries for Fe(1,2)(benzene)(1,2) clusters were determined by means of all-electron calculations done with the density functional BPW91/6311++G(2d,2p) method. The stability of Fe(C(6)H(6))(1,2) is accomplished by the formation of Fe-C eta(6) coordinations in the half-sandwich and sandwich GS structures, which are of lower spin, 2S = 2 (S is the total spin) than the Fe atom, 2S = 4. Departures from eta(6) bonding occur on [Fe(C(6)H(6))(2)](-), since the GS of this anion, of less symmetric sandwich geometry, presents eta(6) and eta(2) coordination, which is mainly due to the enhanced repulsion of the adsorbed benzene units. On Fe(2)(C(6)H(6))(1,2) the stronger Fe(2) bond, compared to the Fe-C ones, produce rice-ball geometries, where the Fe(2) molecule, although with a longer bond length, is preserved. For example, in Fe(2)(C(6)H(6)), Fe(2) lies perpendicular or parallel to the benzene ring depending on the charge of the complex, and in [Fe(2)(C(6)H(6))(2)](+/-0, +/-1) the benzene ligands are placed above and beneath the molecular axis of Fe(2), producing highly compact structures. Multiple decker sandwich states, where Fe(2) is not retained, are located more than 20 kcal mol(-1) above the GS levels. Electron affinities, agreeing well with experimental results, ionization and binding energies, and vibrational frequencies were also determined, providing insight on the complexes.
20523947	The objective in the first phase of this study was to screen four plant species (alfalfa, ryegrass, tall fescue and rice) for phytoremediation of aged polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)-contaminated soil from an electronic and electric waste (e-waste) recycling site. Glucose, biphenyl and three surfactants (TritonX-100, randomly methylated-beta-cyclodextrins and beta-cyclodextrin) were used to enhance the phytoremediation process. During the second phase, the focus was rhizosphere characteristics and plant uptake to investigate the mechanism of PCB removal from soil. In the first phase, all the tested plant species showed a significantly greater PCB removal percentage compared to the unplanted controls, while different amendments showed no significant difference. The most effective plant (ryegrass) combined with beta-cyclodextrin was selected for further studies. During the rhizosphere characteristics and plant uptake study, the highest PCB removal percentage (38.1%) was observed in the ryegrass planted soil when beta-cyclodextrin was amended at 1.0% (w/w). The presence of plants significantly increased the biological activity (microbial counts and enzyme activity) of both beta-cyclodextrin amended and non-amended soils. Higher levels of PCB removal were closely related to greater microbial counts and soil enzyme activities by correlation analysis. After 120 days of plant growth, ryegrass accumulated 708.7-820.1 ng PCBs/g in the root and 71.7-110.8 ng PCBs/g in the shoot, resulting in about 0.08% PCBs removal from soil. It was concluded that high PCB degradation was due to the increased PCB bioavailability as well as biostimulation of microbial communities after plantation and beta-cyclodextrin addition. Furthermore, results suggested that PCB removal was mainly contributed by microbial degradation rather than plant uptake or abiotic dissipation.
20524018	Introgression and functional expression of either the PcINO1 (L: -myo-inositol 1-phosphate synthase or MIPS coding gene from the wild halophytic rice, Porteresia coarctata) or McIMTI (inositol methyl transferase, IMTI coding gene from common ice plant Mesembryanthemum crystallinum) has earlier been shown to confer salt tolerance to transgenic tobacco plants (Sheveleva et al., Plant Physiol 115:1211-1219, 1997; Majee et al., J Biol Chem 279:28539-28552, 2004). In this communication, we show that transgenic tobacco plants co-expressing PcINO1 and McIMT1 gene either in cytosol or in chloroplasts accumulate higher amount of total inositol (free and methyl inositol) compared to non-transgenic plants. These transgenic plants were more competent in terms of growth potential and photosynthetic activity and were less prone to oxidative stress under salt stress. A positive correlation between the elevated level of total inositol and methylated inositol and the capability of the double transgenic plants to withstand a higher degree of salt stress compared to the plants expressing either PcINO1 or McIMT1 alone is inferred.
20524063	Four crossbreds (75% Holstein Friesian) lactating dairy cows were used to evaluate the effects of sunflower oil (SFO) levels and roughage source on feed intake, nutrient digestibility, ruminal fermentation, milk yield, and milk composition. Four milking cows with average liveweight of 410 ± 25 kg and 18 ± 11 days in milk were randomly assigned according to a 4 × 4 Latin square design, in a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement, with SFO levels (3% or 6%) in the concentrate and the roughage source [rice straw (RS) or urea-treated RS (UTRS)] being the main factors. Four dietary treatments as (1) 3% SFO + RS, (2) 6% SFO + RS, (3) 3% SFO + UTRS, and (4) 6% SFO + UTRS were offered ad libitum total mixed ration, with a concentrate/roughage ratio of 60:40. The results were found that UTRS as a roughage source significantly increased feed intake, digestibility, concentration of acetic acid in rumen fluid, rumen ammonia-nitrogen, blood-urea nitrogen, milk urea-nitrogen, and milk yield (3.5% fat-corrected milk) compared with cows fed on untreated RS. Supplementation of SFO at 3% in the concentrate-supplemented group having increased dry matter intake, milk fat percentage, and milk yield (3.5% fat-corrected milk) compared with 6% SFO supplementation. However, there were no interaction effects between level of SFO in the concentrate and roughage source in any of the factors studied.
20524666	The production of a rice malt that could be used as an ingredient in gluten-free foodstuffs, especially for brewing purposes, was studied. Different rice varieties were characterized through morphological description and chemical-physical analyses. Each rice variety was germinated in the laboratory in jute bags for different periods. To produce a rice malt with a good diastatic power, steeping and airing conditions, as well as time and temperature during germination, were studied. The endogenous enzymatic activities, which developed during the malting process and which characterize the diastatic power of the obtained rice malts, were also measured. The conditions of the malting process and the drying step were checked and optimized to produce rice malt with the desired color and aroma. Once the most efficient malting procedure had been chosen, the most suitable rice variety underwent the germination and kilning process in a pilot plant. Some saccharification tests were performed in the laboratory to verify the sugar content of worts obtained from the produced rice malts and whether they could be successfully fermented. The results showed that a good rice malt could be obtained, even if it has a lower enzymatic activity than barley malt.
20525005	Plants recognize potential microbial pathogens through microbial-associated molecular patterns (MAMPs) and activate a series of defense responses, including cell death and the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and diverse anti-microbial secondary metabolites. Mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are known to play a pivotal role in mediating MAMP signals; however, the signaling pathway from a MAPK cascade to the activation of defense responses is poorly understood. Here, we found in rice that the chitin elicitor, a fungal MAMP, activates two rice MAPKs (OsMPK3 and OsMPK6) and one MAPK kinase (OsMKK4). OsMPK6 was essential for the chitin elicitor-induced biosynthesis of diterpenoid phytoalexins. Conditional expression of the active form of OsMKK4 (OsMKK4(DD)) induced extensive alterations in gene expression, which implied dynamic changes of metabolic flow from glycolysis to secondary metabolite biosynthesis while suppressing basic cellular activities such as translation and cell division. OsMKK4(DD) also induced various defense responses, such as cell death, biosynthesis of diterpenoid phytoalexins and lignin but not generation of extracellular ROS. OsMKK4(DD) -induced cell death and expression of diterpenoid phytoalexin pathway genes, but not that of phenylpropanoid pathway genes, were dependent on OsMPK6. Collectively, the OsMKK4-OsMPK6 cascade plays a crucial role in reprogramming plant metabolism during MAMP-triggered defense responses.
20525253	The Protein Disulfide Isomerase (PDI) gene family encodes several PDI and PDI-like proteins containing thioredoxin domains and controlling diversified metabolic functions, including disulfide bond formation and isomerisation during protein folding. Genomic, cDNA and promoter sequences of the three homologous wheat genes encoding the "typical" PDI had been cloned and characterized in a previous work. The purpose of present research was the cloning and characterization of the complete set of genes encoding PDI and PDI like proteins in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum cv Chinese Spring) and the comparison of their sequence, structure and expression with homologous genes from other plant species. Eight new non-homologous wheat genes were cloned and characterized. The nine PDI and PDI-like sequences of wheat were located in chromosome regions syntenic to those in rice and assigned to eight plant phylogenetic groups. The nine wheat genes differed in their sequences, genomic organization as well as in the domain composition and architecture of their deduced proteins; conversely each of them showed high structural conservation with genes from other plant species in the same phylogenetic group. The extensive quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the nine genes in a set of 23 wheat samples, including tissues and developmental stages, showed their constitutive, even though highly variable expression. The nine wheat genes showed high diversity, while the members of each phylogenetic group were highly conserved even between taxonomically distant plant species like the moss Physcomitrella patens. Although constitutively expressed the nine wheat genes were characterized by different expression profiles reflecting their different genomic organization, protein domain architecture and probably promoter sequences; the high conservation among species indicated the ancient origin and diversification of the still evolving gene family. The comprehensive structural and expression characterization of the complete set of PDI and PDI-like wheat genes represents a basis for the functional characterization of this gene family in the hexaploid context of bread wheat.
20525603	Several methods have recently been developed to infer multilocus phylogenies by incorporating information from topological incongruence of the individual genes. In this study, we investigate 2 such methods, Bayesian concordance analysis and Bayesian estimation of species trees. Our test data are a collection of genes from cultivated rice (genus Oryza) and the most closely related wild species, generated using a high-throughput sequencing protocol and bioinformatics pipeline. Trees inferred from independent genes display levels of topological incongruence that far exceed that seen in previous data sets analyzed with these species tree methods. We identify differences in phylogenetic results between inference methods that incorporate gene tree incongruence. Finally, we discuss the challenges of scaling these analyses for data sets with thousands of gene trees and extensive levels of missing data.
20526617	Cold tolerance at the seedling stage (CTSS) is an important trait affecting stable rice production in temperate climates and areas of high elevation. In this study, 331 single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were developed and used along with phenotypic evaluation to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with CTSS from a mapping population of 184 F(2) plants derived from a cold tolerant wild rice, W1943 (Oryza rufipogon), and a sensitive indica cultivar, Guang-lu-ai 4 (GLA4). Three QTLs were detected on chromosomes 3, 10 and 11. A major locus, qCtss11 (QTL for cold tolerance at seedling stage), was located on the long arm of chromosome 11 explaining about 40% of the phenotypic variation. Introduction of the W1943 allele of qCtss11 to the GLA4 genetic background increased CTSS. Based on the phenotypic and genotypic assessment of advanced backcross progenies, qCtss11 was dissected as a single Mendelian factor. A high-resolution genetic map was constructed using 23 markers across the qCtss11 locus. As a result, qCtss11 was fine mapped to a 60-kb candidate region defined by marker AK24 and GP0030 on chromosome 11, in which six genes were annotated. Expression and resequence analyses of the six candidates supported the hypothesis that Os11g0615600 and/or Os11g0615900 are causal gene(s) of the CTSS.
20527159	Extensive reclamation of marshland into cropland has had tremendous effects on the ecological environment in the Sanjiang Plain. Observations over marshland, rice paddy and soybean field were made with eddy covariance measuring systems from May to October in 2005, 2006 and 2007. The objective of this study was to identify the effects of the conversion of marshland to cropland on evapotranspiration in the Sanjiang Plain. The results showed that the diurnal variation curves of latent heat flux were single peaked in marshland, rice paddy and soybean field. The daily maximum latent heat flux increased by 14%-130% in rice paddy in the three measuring years, however, in soybean field, it increased by 3%-77% in 2006 but decreased by 25%-40% in 2005 and 2007 by comparison with that in marshland. This difference was due to the change of leaf area index when marshland was reclaimed into cropland. Seasonal change of latent heat flux was identical for the three land use types. Daily averaged latent heat flux of rice paddy, from May to October, showed 38%-53% increase compared with that of marshland, which resulted from the increase in net radiation and leaf area index. When marshland was reclaimed into soybean field, the variation of daily averaged latent heat flux depended primarily on precipitation. Precipitation was the main factor that controlled evapotranspiration over soybean field which was usually in condition of soil water deficit. Drought caused 11%-17% decrease of daily averaged latent heat flux over soybean field in 2005 and 2007, while sufficient precipitation caused 22% increase in 2006, comparing to marshland. Similarly, during the growing season from June to September, total evapotranspiration of rice paddy increased by 24%-51% compared with that of marshland, and the total evapotranspiration of soybean field decreased by 19%-23% in 2005 and 2007 and increased by 19% in 2006. It is concluded that the evapotranspiration changes significantly when the marshland was reclaimed into rice paddy or soybean field in the Sanjiang Plain. Compared to marshland, the evapotranspiration is higher in rice paddy and soybean filed with sufficient precipitation, while lower in soybean field under drought. These changes are found to be highly related to the variations of net radiation, leaf area index and precipitation.
20527512	Studies have shown that asthma in children is caused by environmental and genetic factors. In adult asthma, risk factors were less well recognized. Likewise, in Thailand, data in adult asthma is limited. This study aimed to evaluate risk factors, determine skin reactivities to allergens, and assess concomitant allergy among adult asthma in Phitsanulok, a major city in the lower northern Thailand. Five hundred and thirteen Naresuan University staff members and students completed 2 sets of questionnaires and underwent allergy skin prick tests. The first set of questionnaires was standardized Thai version of ISAAC questionnaire for identifying asthma, allergic rhinitis, and atopic eczema. The second set was modified from ISAAC phase II questionnaire to identify asthma risk factors. Fifty-eight subjects (11.6%) were identified as having physician's diagnosed asthma and 89 subjects (17.7%) wheezed in the past 12 months. Among 89 subjects, 14.4% wheezed more than once a month, 45.6% had wheezes interfering with sleep. Concomitant allergic rhinitis, rhinoconjunctivitis and atopic eczema among these asthma subjects were 82.5%, 67.9%, and 14.9%, respectively. Eighty seven point nine percent of asthmatic subjects had positive skin reactivities to at least one allergen. Two of the most common allergens were house dust mites and cockroaches. Maternal smoking during pregnancy, smoking among family members, and family history of allergy were statistically significant risks for developing asthma, while having a rice field around the residence represented a significant protective factor. In conclusion, high prevalence of asthma presented in Phitsanulok and many asthmatic subjects were partly controlled or uncontrolled. The environment such as a rice field could protect against asthma, however atopy and smoking exposure were significant risks for asthma development
20527765	This study was undertaken to assess the impact of self-reported dietary habits and lifestyle on the plasma concentration of selected perfluorinated compounds (PFCs) in a representative group of 315 middle-aged Norwegian women (48-62 years of age). Perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS; median: 20 ng/mL), perfluorooctanoate (PFOA; 4.4 ng/mL), perfluorohexane sulfonate (PFHxS; 1.0 ng/mL), and perfluorononanoate (PFNA; 0.81 ng/mL) were detected in more than 90% of the plasma samples. By using multivariate data analysis, women who ate fish or "fish eaters" (high consumers of fish and shellfish) were identified as having increased plasma concentrations of PFOS, PFNA, and PFHxS. Younger women with a larger household and a "western" diet consisting of rice, pasta, water, white and red meat, chocolate, snacks, and pastries had lower concentrations of the same compounds. No specific food cluster was associated with increased PFOA concentrations, indicating that the dietary impact on PFOA concentrations was different from that of the other investigated PFCs. This study confirms that the total diet is a major contributor to human body burdens of selected PFCs, but the identification of dietary predictors is highly dependent on the dietary habits within the population studied due to the ubiquitous presence of PFCs in many kinds of food.
20527963	The aim of this study was to investigate the antihypertensive activity of the ethanol extract (EE) of red mold rice (RMR) and to explore its mechanism of action. In comparison to EE of nonfermented rice, the EE of RMR contained higher levels of total phenolic, total flavonoids, gamma-aminobutyric acid, and monacolin K. Intravenous bolus administration of the EE (10-50 mg/kg) resulted in biphasic, dose-dependent antihypertensive effects and decreases in heart rate, cardiac contractility, and sympathetic vasomotor tone in spontaneously hypertensive rats. The initial and delayed antihypertensive responses, and the negative inotropic and chronotropic effects of EE treatment (30 mg/kg, i.v.) were significantly reduced by pretreatment with hexamethonium (30 mg/kg, i.v.) and N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (20 mg/kg, i.v.). Pretreatment with methylatropine (1 mg/kg, i.v.), however, reversed the initial but not the delayed bradycardiac and negative inotropic effects of EE. We conclude that systemic administration of the EE of RMR elicited both transient and delayed antihypertensive actions that were mediated by the withdrawal of sympathetic tone and the production of nitric oxide (NO). The negative inotropic and chronotropic effects of EE may result from a direct sympathetic inhibition of the heart as well as an activation of the NO-dependent pathway.
20528183	Secondary sporidia of Tilletia horrida, T. indica, and T. walkeri initiate local infection of rice, wheat, and ryegrass florets, respectively, leading to disease in seed. Secondary sporidia are considered to be fragile and short lived. To examine this, secondary sporidia from agar cultures of these species were naturally discharged onto petri dish lids and were air-dried and maintained in the laboratory at 10 to 20% relative humidity (RH) at 20 to 22 degrees C, and at 40 to 50% RH at 18 degrees C. Lids were periodically inverted over fresh agar to determine viability of dried sporidia. Sporidia held 31 to 49 days at 10 to 20% RH and 56 to 88 days at 40 to 50% RH regenerated rapidly. Commonly, 18 h after lids with dried sporidia were inverted over agar, newly produced secondary sporidia had discharged onto the agar and produced extensive hyphal growth. There was no difference in the viability of sporidia that were initially dried rapidly or dried slowly over 10 h. Sporidia of T. horrida or T. indica dried on petri dish lids placed in the lower canopy of barley or wheat fields in Idaho and Arizona during early flag leaf to soft dough stages and held until crops were near or beyond maturity regenerated rapidly despite temperatures up to 46 degrees C and several days of RH < 20%. These results suggest that sporidia produced well prior to susceptible growth stages of the host can lay dormant in very dry field environments and then rapidly regenerate under humid rainy conditions associated with the diseases.
20528920	Auxin is transported by the influx carriers auxin resistant 1/like aux1 (AUX/LAX), and the efflux carriers pin-formed (PIN) and P-glycoprotein (PGP), which play a major role in polar auxin transport. Several auxin transporter genes have been characterized in dicotyledonous Arabidopsis, but most are unknown in monocotyledons, especially in sorghum. Here, we analyze the chromosome distribution, gene duplication and intron/exon of SbPIN, SbLAX and SbPGP gene families, and examine their phylogenic relationships in Arabidopsis, rice and sorghum. Real-time PCR analysis demonstrated that most of these genes were differently expressed in the organs of sorghum. SbPIN3 and SbPIN9 were highly expressed in flowers, SbLAX2 and SbPGP17 were mainly expressed in stems, and SbPGP7 was strongly expressed in roots. This suggests that individual genes might participate in specific organ development. The expression profiles of these gene families were analyzed after treatment with: (a) the phytohormones indole-3-acetic acid and brassinosteroid; (b) the polar auxin transport inhibitors 1-naphthoxyacetic acids, 1-naphthylphthalamic acid and 2,3,5-triiodobenzoic acid; and (c) abscissic acid and the abiotic stresses of high salinity and drought. Most of the auxin transporter genes were strongly induced by indole-3-acetic acid and brassinosteroid, providing new evidence for the synergism of these phytohormones. Interestingly, most genes showed similar trends in expression under polar auxin transport inhibitors and each also responded to abscissic acid, salt and drought. This study provides new insights into the auxin transporters of sorghum.
20529403	To explore socio-economic differences in use of staff canteens and whether frequent use of staff canteens is associated with different food patterns and obesity. Cross-sectional study using three self-administered questionnaires, two of them including food frequency questions. Factor analysis was used to explore food patterns. Oslo, Norway, 2000-2001. In total 8943 adult, working Oslo citizens. Frequent (≥3 times/week) use of staff canteens was most likely among men, younger workers and those in the highest education and income groups. However, after adjustment for demographic, socio-economic and lifestyle factors, those with highest education were least likely to use staff canteens frequently. Frequent eating in staff canteens was positively associated with a Western food pattern (based on fat-rich food, fast food and red meat) and inversely associated with a traditional food pattern (based on boiled potatoes and gravy, and less rice, pasta and oil) in multivariate analyses. Unadjusted, frequent eating in staff canteens was also inversely associated with a prudent food pattern (based on fruit, vegetables, fish, legumes and oil). The likelihood of being obese (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m2) increased significantly with frequent eating in staff canteens, also when adjusted for demographic and socio-economic variables. Adjustment for the food patterns attenuated this relationship, but it was still significant. Frequent eating in staff canteens was negatively related to socio-economic position and positively associated with unhealthy dietary habits. This partly explained higher odds for obesity among frequent users of staff canteens. Future research should assess the availability and food options of staff canteens.
20530196	Rice has the unique ability to express alpha-amylase under anoxic conditions, a feature that is critical for successful anaerobic germination and growth. Previously, anaerobic conditions were shown to up-regulate the expression of Amy3 subfamily genes (Amy3B/C, 3D, and 3E) in rice embryos. These genes are known to be feedback regulated by the hydrolytic products of starchy endosperm such as the simple sugar glucose. It was found that oxygen deficiency interferes with the repression of Amy3D gene expression imposed by low concentrations of glucose but not with that imposed by higher amounts. This differential anoxic de-repression depending on sugar concentration suggests the presence of two distinct pathways for sugar regulation of Amy3D gene expression. Anoxic de-repression can be mimicked by treating rice embryos with inhibitors of ATP synthesis during respiration. Other sugar-regulated rice alpha-amylase genes, Amy3B/C and 3E, behave similarly to Amy3D. Treatment with a respiratory inhibitor or anoxia also relieved the sugar repression of the rice CIPK15 gene, a main upstream positive regulator of SnRK1A that is critical for Amy3D expression in response to sugar starvation. SnRK1A accumulation was previously shown to be required for MYBS1 expression, which transactivates Amy3D by binding to a cis-acting element found in the proximal region of all Amy3 subfamily gene promoters (the TA box). Taken together, these results suggest that prevention of oxidative phosphorylation by oxygen deficiency interferes with the sugar repression of Amy3 subfamily gene expression, leading to their enhanced expression in rice embryos during anaerobic germination.
20530251	Colinearity of genes in plant genomes generally decreases with increasing evolutionary distance while the actual number of genes remains more or less constant. To characterize the molecular mechanisms of this "gene movement," we identified non-colinear genes by three-way comparison of the genomes of Brachypodium, rice, and sorghum. We found that genomic fragments of up to 50 kb containing the non-colinear genes are duplicated to acceptor sites elsewhere in the genome. Apparent movement of genes may usually be the result of subsequent deletions of genes in the donor region. Often, the duplicated fragments are precisely bordered by transposable elements (TEs) at the acceptor site. Highly diagnostic sequence motifs at these borders strongly suggest that these gene movements were the result of double-strand break (DSB) repair through synthesis-dependent strand annealing. In these cases, a copy of the foreign DNA fragment is used as filler DNA to repair the DSB linked with the transposition of TEs. Interestingly, most TEs we found associated with gene movement have a very low copy number in the genome and for several we did not find autonomous copies. This suggests that some of these elements spontaneously arose from unspecific interaction with TE proteins that are encoded by autonomous elements. Additionally, we found evidence that gene movements can also be caused when DSBs are repaired after template slippage or unequal crossing-over events. The observed frequency of gene movements can explain the erosion of gene colinearity between plant genomes during evolution.
20530878	We constructed two series of Gateway binary vectors, pGWBs and R4pGWBs, possessing the bialaphos resistance gene (bar) as a selection marker for plant transformation. The reporters and tags employed in this system are sGFP, GUS, LUC, EYFP, ECFP, G3GFP, mRFP, TagRFP, 6xHis, FLAG, 3xHA, 4xMyc, 10xMyc, GST, T7 and TAP. Selection of Arabidopsis transformants with BASTA was successfully carried out using both plate-grown and soil-grown seedlings. Transformed rice calli and suspension-cultured tobacco cells were selected on plates containing BASTA or glufosinate-ammonium. These vectors are compatible with existing pGWB and R4pGWB vectors carrying kanamycin and hygromycin B resistance.
20530881	It became possible to produce high-quality and bio-functional wheat/rice bread and wheat/rice noodles by blending, pre-germinated and cooked brown rice of a super-hard cultivar with wheat flour. Super-hard rice (SHR) is not suitable for table rice because of its low palatability. Nevertheless, it was found to be suitable as a blending material for bread-making or noodle-making due to its hard texture and high content of resistant starch. We developed a novel rapid germination method to improve the quality and to save the time needed for germination. By blending pre-germinated and cooked SHR (30% w/w on a dry basis) as a rice gel with wheat flour (70% w/w on a dry basis), the bread became very soft and any hardening after bread-making was markedly retarded. Similarly, blending pre-germinated and cooked SHR as cooked a rice gel with wheat flour gave high-quality noodles with a similar texture to that of durum semolina noodles. The resistant starch of the SHR-blended bread and noodles was also markedly increased. White waxy rice (9%) soaked and cooked with the pre-germinated brown rice of SHR (21%) produced a rice gel that was very useful as a material for bread-making and noodle-making by blending with wheat flour (70%) to prepare soft, tasty and bio-functional wheat/rice bread and wheat/rice noodles.
20530890	Rice-paddy microbial fuel cells generate electricity from organic matter that is photosynthesized by rice plants and exudated from the roots. We examined factors that might affect cell performance, and found that cathode modification with platinum catalysts, anode position, and external load largely affected the power output.
20531329
20532233	Melioidosis is a frequently fatal infectious disease caused by the soil dwelling Gram-negative bacterium Burkholderia pseudomallei. Environmental sampling is important to identify geographical distribution of the organism and related risk of infection to humans and livestock. The aim of this study was to evaluate spatial distribution of B. pseudomallei in soil and consider the implications of this for soil sampling strategies. A fixed-interval sampling strategy was used as the basis for detection and quantitation by culture of B. pseudomallei in soil in two environmental sites (disused land covered with low-lying scrub and rice field) in northeast Thailand. Semivariogram and indicator semivariogram were used to evaluate the distribution of B. pseudomallei and its relationship with range between sampling points. B. pseudomallei was present on culture of 80/100 sampling points taken from the disused land and 28/100 sampling points from the rice field. The median B. pseudomallei cfu/gram from positive sampling points was 378 and 700 for the disused land and the rice field, respectively (p = 0.17). Spatial autocorrelation of B. pseudomallei was present, in that samples taken from areas adjacent to sampling points that were culture positive (negative) for B. pseudomallei were also likely to be culture positive (negative), and samples taken from areas adjacent to sampling points with a high (low) B. pseudomallei count were also likely to yield a high (low) count. Ranges of spatial autocorrelation in quantitative B. pseudomallei count were 11.4 meters in the disused land and 7.6 meters in the rice field. We discuss the implications of the uneven distribution of B. pseudomallei in soil for future environmental studies, and describe a range of established geostatistical sampling approaches that would be suitable for the study of B. pseudomallei that take account of our findings.
20532628	The regulatory effect of light quality on the photosynthetic apparatus in attached leaves of rice plants was investigated by keeping rice plants under natural light, in complete darkness, or under illumination with light of different colors. When leaves were left in darkness and far-red (FR)-light conditions for 6 days at 30 degrees C, there was an initial lag in chlorophyll (Chl) content, Chl a/b ratio, and maximum photosystem (PS) II photochemistry that lasted until the second day; these then rapidly decreased on the fourth day. In contrast, ribulose 1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) rapidly disappeared with no lag under low or zero light conditions. By using spectrophotometric quantitation, it was determined that the PSII and PSI reaction centers were regulated by light quality, but cytochrome (Cyt) f was regulated by light intensity. However, the PSII heterogeneity was also strongly modified by the light intensity; PSIIalpha with the large antenna decreased markedly both in content and in antenna size. Consequently, the PSIIalpha/PSI ratio declined under FR-light because the low intensity of FR-light dominated over its quality in the modulation of the PSIIalpha/PSI ratio. An imbalance between them induced the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), although the ROS were scavenged by stromal enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and glutathione reductase (GR). The activities of these stromal enzymes are also regulated by light quality. Thus, although the photosynthetic apparatus is regulated differently depending on light quality, light quality may play an important role in the regulation of the photosynthetic apparatus.
20532668	Drought is a major constraint for rice production in the rainfed lowlands in China. Silicon (Si) has been verified to play an important role in enhancing plant resistance to environmental stress. Two near-isogenic lines of rice (Oryza sativa L.), w-14 (drought susceptible) and w-20 (drought resistant), were selected to study the effects of exogenous Si application on the physiological traits and nutritional status of rice under drought stress. In wet conditions, Si supply had no effects on growth and physiological parameters of rice plants. Drought stress was found to reduce dry weight, root traits, water potential, photosynthetic parameters, basal quantum yield (F(v)/F(0)), and maximum quantum efficiency of PSII photochemistry (F(v)/F(m)) in rice plants, while Si application significantly increased photosynthetic rate (Pr), transpiration rate (Tr), F(v)/F(0), and F(v)/F(m) of rice plants under drought stress. In addition, water stress increased K, Na, Ca, Mg, Fe content of rice plants, but Si treatment significantly reduced these nutrient level. These results suggested that silicon application was useful to increase drought resistance of rice through the enhancement of photochemical efficiency and adjustment of the mineral nutrient absorption in rice plants.
2053283	When our stock of standard Sindbis virus (SVSTD) is assayed by plaque formation on Aedes albopictus mosquito cells, about 1-2% of the plaques appear much clearer and sharper than the majority of the plaques. One of these clear plaques was picked, grown into a viral stock (SVCP), and used to prepare viral cDNA. Making use of the infectious Sindbis virus plasmid, Toto 1101 (Rice et al., 1987), we mapped the causal mutation for the clear plaque phenotype to a region between nt 7334 and 7716, and by sequencing of the viral RNA identified a mutation at nucleotide 7592. This mutation lies in the junction region of the viral genome, specifically at nucleotide -6, with reference to the initiation site for 26 S RNA synthesis. In SVCP-infected mosquito cells, but not in SVCP-infected chick cells, the ratio of subgenomic 26 S to 49 S (genomic) RNA synthesis was decreased relative to that observed in SVSTD infected cells. In terms of amino acid coding, the SVCP mutation is silent.
20532949	Hpa1(Xoo) (harpin) is a type III secreted protein of the rice blight bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae that elicits a hypersensitive response (HR) in nonhost tobacco. Hpa1(Xoo) is predicted to contain two potential coiled-coil (CC) regions, one at the N-terminus with a high probability of formation, and one at the C-terminus with a lower probability of formation. We constructed several CC-equivalent peptides by a chemosynthetic method, and investigated the structure-function of the predicted Hpa1(Xoo) CC regions, using biophysical and biochemical approaches. Both peptides elicited an HR in tobacco. Mutant versions of the N- and C-terminal peptides that were predicted to disrupt or favor CC formation were generated. The resulting altered HR activity and oligomerization indicated that the N-terminal CC region is essential for eliciting HR, but the C-terminus is not. The results also indicate that a 14-residue fragment (LDQLLCQLISALLQ) within the N-terminal CC region is a minimal and independent functional element for HR-induction in tobacco leaves. We propose that HR-induction requires a specific oligomerization of the CC regions of Hpa1(Xoo).
20533244	Gamma-oryzanol is a component of rice bran oil (RBO) with purported health benefits. This study evaluated the effects of gamma-oryzanol on insulin resistance and lipid metabolism in Wistar rats with type 2 diabetes (T2DM). The rats were divided into three groups and consumed one of the following diets for 5 weeks: 15 % soybean oil (control group); 15 % palm oil (PO); and 15 % PO with the addition of 5.25 g gamma-oryzanol (POO). The results showed that PO markedly increased plasma low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol, plasma triglycerides, and hepatic triglyceride levels, but did not reduce the area under the curve for glucose and insulin significantly, compared with the control group. Adding gamma-oryzanol to PO improved the negative influence of PO on lipid metabolism in T2DM rats. In addition, gamma-oryzanol tended to increase insulin sensitivity in T2DM rats compared to control and PO groups. Longer-term studies are needed to evaluate these effects further.
20533953	The Bouwer and Rice method is a line-fitting method used to estimate the hydraulic conductivity of an aquifer by means of a slug test. When considering a relatively impermeable layer, called a filter cake, which may form at the interface between a cutoff wall and the natural soil formation, the assumptions of the Bouwer and Rice method are violated. A modification of the Bouwer and Rice method is proposed that incorporates the concept of a flow net, whereby the geometry of the cutoff wall and filter cake is effectively considered in estimating the hydraulic conductivity of a vertical cutoff wall.
20534082	Kwashiorkor is a type of protein-calorie malnutrition often seen in children of impoverished countries and famine. The condition occurs in the setting of insufficient protein intake in the presence of sufficient caloric intake. We report a case of a 8-month-old male infant in the suburban Detroit, MI, USA who presented with diffuse edema, erythroderma and desquamation, a "bull-dog" face, diarrhea, and irritability, consistent with kwashiorkor as a result of severe dietary restriction. The mother had placed the child on a severely restrictive diet, consisting only of RICE DREAM((R)) milk, sweet potatoes and bananas, with the assumption that it would help his rash. Nineteen prior cases of kwashiorkor induced in infants by dietary restriction of "well intending" parents have been reported in the US literature. Malnutrition is often under diagnosed or misdiagnosed in developed countries such as the United States. The results, if unrecognized or untreated, may be devastating. This makes it imperative that physicians consider this diagnosis, recognize potential risk factors and be prepared to accurately assess overall nutritional status of patients.
20534327	The degree of mastication varies significantly between individuals and may be a cause for the considerable interindividual variation observed in the glycemic response (GR) to a single food. Using rice as the model, the aim of this study was to determine if interindividual differences in mastication and resulting degree of particle breakdown affected in vitro and in vivo glycemic potency. In a randomized crossover design, using 15 subjects, the particle size distribution and in vitro digestibility of individuals' chewed rice were determined along with their in vivo blood GR. The rapidly digested starch (RDS) content in the masticated boluses, moreover, was measured during in vitro digestion. The particle size distribution of masticated rice differed significantly interindividually. In vitro digestion of rice decreased as particle size increased. The degree of particle size breakdown as a result of mastication correlated with the RDS content in the chewed food bolus and initial digestion rate in vitro. The quantity of undigested material remaining at the end of 120-minute in vitro digestion correlated significantly with the percentage of particles greater than 2000 microm in masticated rice. The percentage of particles smaller than 500 microm correlated significantly with in vivo GR at 30 minutes postingestion but not with the total incremental area under the blood glucose curve. The degree of habitual mastication may therefore potentially influence both the magnitude and pattern of the GR and may partly explain interindividual differences in it. Although the study sets the base for future research, firm conclusions can be reached only upon the completion of additional work.
20534332	This study was undertaken to investigate the hypothesis that whole grain consumption would have beneficial effects on lipid profiles, antioxidant status, and the inflammation state of hyperlipidemic rats compared to those resulting from a white rice (WR) diet. Forty-week-old male Sprague-Dawley rats (n = 24) were fed a high-fat diet (188.3 kJ% energy as fat) for 8 weeks to induce hyperlipidemia and were then randomly divided into 4 groups (n = 6 each) that were fed diets containing WR (control), sorghum, foxtail millet (FM), or proso millet for the next 5 weeks. Blood lipid profiles, hepatic antioxidant parameters, and inflammation-related measurements were determined in all of the groups. The concentrations of serum triglycerides were significantly lower in the FM and proso millet groups compared to those of the WR and sorghum groups. The concentrations of serum total, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)-cholesterol were significantly higher in the sorghum group than in the WR, FM, and proso millet groups. Hepatic catalase, superoxide dismutase, and glutathione activities, as well as thiobarbituric acid reactive substance levels were not significantly different between the groups. Levels of C-reactive protein were significantly lower in the FM group than in the WR, sorghum, and proso millet groups. Inhibitor kappaB-alpha was expressed in the liver cytosolic fraction, and nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB (p65) into the liver nucleus was blocked in all groups. In conclusion, FM and proso millet may prevent cardiovascular disease by reducing plasma triglycerides in hyperlipidemic rats; in contrast, sorghum increases total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol, and LDL-cholesterol concentrations.
20535343	Rice- and chili-containing foods are common in Asia. Studies suggest that rice is completely absorbed in the small bowel, produces little intestinal gas and has a low allergenicity. Several clinical studies have demonstrated that rice-based meals are well tolerated and may improve gastrointestinal symptoms in functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID). Chili is a spicy ingredient commonly use throughout Asia. The active component of chili is capsaicin. Capsaicin can mediate a painful, burning sensation in the human gut via the transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 (TRPV1). Recently, the TRPV1 expressing sensory fibers have been reported to increase in the gastrointestinal tract of patients with FGID and visceral hypersensitivity. Acute exposure to capsaicin or chili can aggravate abdominal pain and burning in dyspepsia and IBS patients. Whereas, chronic ingestion of natural capsaicin agonist or chili has been shown to decrease dyspeptic and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) symptoms. The high prevalence of spicy food in Asia may modify gastrointestinal burning symptoms in patients with FGID. Studies in Asia demonstrated a low prevalence of heartburn symptoms in GERD patients in several Asian countries. In conclusion rice is well tolerated and should be advocated as the carbohydrate source of choice for patients with FGID. Although, acute chili ingestion can aggravate abdominal pain and burning symptoms in FGID, chronic ingestion of chili was found to improve functional dyspepsia and GERD symptoms in small randomized, controlled studies.
20535379	Cooked rice is a staple food for Koreans which provides more than 60% of daily required energy. In 1960's, Koreans ate 600 g-800 g of cooked rice per meal and the energy obtained from cooked rice was almost more than 80% of the daily intake of energy. However, as the economy of Korea improved, the major industry has been shifted from agriculture to various manufacturing industries and the export of those products has been increased thus increasing the national income but decreasing the farming population and thus rice consumption have been decreased. It has been said that the decreased rice consumption is caused solely by decreased farming population but it can also be said that the decreased farming population is caused by decreased rice consumption.As the national income increases, the type of foods people consume have become diversified. Various processed foods such as convenience food or ready-to-eat food have been widespread, which are mostly made of wheat flour rather than rice.
20535508	Curcumin is a polyphenol extracted from the rhizome of Curcuma longa and well known as a multifunctional drug with anti-oxidative, anticancerous, and anti-inflammatory activities. The aim of the study was to evaluate and compare the effects of the use of the curcumin and the methylprednisolone sodium succinate (MPSS) functionally, biochemically, and pathologically after experimental spinal cord injury (SCI). Forty rats were randomly allocated into five groups. Group 1 was performed only laminectomy. Group 2 was introduced 70-g closing force aneurysm clip injury. Group 3 was given 30 mg/kg MPSS intraperitoneally immediately after the trauma. Group 4 was given 200 mg/kg of curcumin immediately after the trauma. Group 5 was the vehicle, and immediately after trauma, 1 mL of rice bran oil was injected. The animals were examined by inclined plane score and Basso-Beattie-Bresnahan scale 24 h after the trauma. At the end of the experiment, spinal cord tissue samples were harvested to analyze tissue concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px), superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity, and catalase (CAT) activity and pathological evaluation. Curcumin treatment improved neurologic outcome, which was supported by decreased level of tissue MDA and increased levels of tissue GSH-Px, SOD, and CAT activity. Light microscopy results also showed preservation of tissue structure in the treatment group. This study showed the neuroprotective effects of curcumin on experimental SCI model. By increasing tissue levels of GSH-Px, SOD, and CAT, curcumin seems to reduce the effects of injury to the spinal cord, which may be beneficial for neuronal survival.
20537046	Based on the evidence that Al resistance is an inducible process and rice is an Al-resistant crop, identification of Al-responsive genes from rice may help to further clone Al-resistant genes in plants. Semi-quantitative and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is widely applied in gene transcriptional analyses, particularly for those genes with low transcript abundance. Normalization with proper endogenous control (EC) genes is critical for these two approaches in terms of reliability and precision. We first noticed that the expression of several commonly-used EC genes was depressed under Al stress, while sulfite reductase gene (SR) was stable throughout the Al treatment. The reliability of SR as an EC gene was further tested by analyzing the expression of a number of genes in response to Al challenge. Except for the consistent results obtained for the four previously-identified genes, nine additional genes were newly defined as Al-responsive in this study. Collectively, our results suggest that SR can be used as a novel EC gene for semi-quantitative and real-time PCR analysis of Al responsive genes, and that activated transport of silicon and stimulated metabolism of carotenoid and terpenoid could be involved in Al resistance in rice plants.
20537391	I examined the toxicity of rice paddy herbicides simetryn, mefenacet, and thiobencarb to amphibians by conducting acute toxicity tests with tadpoles of Silurana tropicalis, which has attracted as a new model species instead of Xenopus laevis. The tadpoles at stages 49 and 50 were exposed to the herbicides at several concentrations during 96 h, and median lethal concentration (LC50) values were calculated at 24-h intervals. The LC50 values of simetryn, mefenacet, and thiobencarb were 16.9-3.70 mg/L (79.3-17.4 microM), 3.06-2.70 mg/L (10.3-9.04 microM), and 1.77-0.752 mg/L (6.85-2.92 microM), respectively. The most toxic herbicide was thiobencarb followed by mefenacet and simetryn. As for thiobencarb, the sensitivity of S. tropicalis was similar to that of X. laevis reported previously. This suggests that S. tropicalis as well as X. laevis can act as a model species in acute toxicity tests. The LC50 values of the three herbicides were very close to or at most two orders of magnitude higher than the maximum concentrations likely to occur in paddy water. Therefore, the three herbicides can be harmful to amphibian larvae living in paddy water.
20537680	The green miridbug, Cyrtorhinus lividipennis, an important natural enemy of the rice brown planthopper (BPH), Nilaparvata lugens plays a major role as a predator in suppressing the pest population. The study assessed the impact of certain potential insecticides used in the rice ecosystem on the miridbug predator and brown planthopper through contact toxicity. Eleven insecticides, including neonicotinoids, diamides, azomethine pyridines, carbamates, pyrethroids, organophosphates and cyclodienes were selected to test their toxicities against the nymphs of C. lividipennis and N. lugens. Median lethal concentration (LC(50)) was determined for each insecticide using an insecticide-coated vial (scintillation) residue bioassay, which revealed BPMC as the highly toxic chemical with an LC(50) of 0.003mga.iL(-1) followed by ethofenprox and clothianidin with LC(50) of 0.006mga.iL(-1) at 48 HAT against C. lividipennis and ethofenprox as the highly toxic chemical with an LC(50) of 0.009mga.iL(-1) followed by clothianidin with an LC(50) of 0.211mga.iL(-1) at 48h after treatment (HAT) against N. lugens. Among the insecticides tested, the cyclodiene compound, endosulfan had the lowest acute contact toxicity (LC(50)=66.65mga.iL(-1) at 48 HAT) to C. lividipennis. Among the insecticides tested, endosulfan, chlorpyriphos, acephate and methyl parathion are regarded as safer to C. lividipennis based on selectivity ratio, hazard quotient and probit substitution method of risk assessments.
20538888	The genetic and physiological mechanisms of aluminum (Al) tolerance have been well studied in certain cereal crops, and Al tolerance genes have been identified in sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) and wheat (Triticum aestivum). Rice (Oryza sativa) has been reported to be highly Al tolerant; however, a direct comparison of rice and other cereals has not been reported, and the mechanisms of rice Al tolerance are poorly understood. To facilitate Al tolerance phenotyping in rice, a high-throughput imaging system and root quantification computer program was developed, permitting quantification of the entire root system, rather than just the longest root. Additionally, a novel hydroponic solution was developed and optimized for Al tolerance screening in rice and compared with the Yoshida's rice solution commonly used for rice Al tolerance studies. To gain a better understanding of Al tolerance in cereals, comparisons of Al tolerance across cereal species were conducted at four Al concentrations using seven to nine genetically diverse genotypes of wheat, maize (Zea mays), sorghum, and rice. Rice was significantly more tolerant than maize, wheat, and sorghum at all Al concentrations, with the mean Al tolerance level for rice found to be 2- to 6-fold greater than that in maize, wheat, and sorghum. Physiological experiments were conducted on a genetically diverse panel of more than 20 rice genotypes spanning the range of rice Al tolerance and compared with two maize genotypes to determine if rice utilizes the well-described Al tolerance mechanism of root tip Al exclusion mediated by organic acid exudation. These results clearly demonstrate that the extremely high levels of rice Al tolerance are mediated by a novel mechanism, which is independent of root tip Al exclusion.
20540733	Bacterial leaf blight causes significant yield losses in rice crops throughout Asia and Africa. Although both the Asian and African strains of the pathogen, Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), induce similar symptoms, they are nevertheless genetically different, with the African strains being more closely related to the Asian X. oryzae pv. oryzicola (Xoc). Changes in gene expression of the African Xoo strain MAI1 in the susceptible rice cultivar Nipponbare were profiled, using an SSH Xoo DNA microarray. Microarray hybridization was performed comparing bacteria recovered from plant tissues at 1, 3, and 6 days after inoculation (dai) with bacteria grown in vitro. A total of 710 bacterial genes were found to be differentially expressed, with 407 up-regulated and 303 down-regulated. Expression profiling indicated that less than 20% of the 710 bacterial transcripts were induced in the first 24 h after inoculation, whereas 63% were differentially expressed at 6 dai. The 710 differentially expressed genes were one-end sequenced. 535 sequences were obtained from which 147 non-redundant sequences were identified. Differentially expressed genes were related to metabolism, secretion and transport, pathogen adherence to plant tissues, plant cell-wall degradation, IS elements, and virulence. In addition, various other genes encoding proteins with unknown function or showing no similarity to other proteins were also induced. The Xoo MAI1 non-redundant set of sequences was compared against several X. oryzae genomes, revealing a specific group of genes that was present only in MAI1. Numerous IS elements were also found to be differentially expressed. Quantitative real-time PCR confirmed 86% of the identified profile on a set of 14 genes selected according to the microarray analysis. This is the first report to compare the expression of Xoo genes in planta across different time points during infection. This work shows that as-yet-unidentified and potentially new virulence factors are appearing in an emerging African pathogen. It also confirms that African Xoo strains do differ from their Asian counterparts, even at the transcriptional level.
20541408	Arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) form symbioses with the majority of plants, improving plant nutrition and diversity. Evidence exists suggesting that AMF contain populations of genetically different nucleotypes coexisting in a common cytoplasm. This potentially has two important consequences for their genetics. First, by random distribution of nuclei at spore formation, new offspring of an AMF could receive different complements of nucleotypes compared to the parent or siblings-we consider this as segregation. Second, genetic exchange between AMF would allow the mixing of nuclei, altering nucleotype diversity in new spores. Because segregation was assumed not to occur and genetic exchange has only recently been demonstrated, no attempts have been made to test whether this affects the symbiosis with plants. Here, we show that segregation occurs in the AMF Glomus intraradices and can enhance the growth of rice up to five times, even though neither parental nor crossed AMF lines induced a positive growth response. This process also resulted in an alteration of symbiosis-specific gene transcription in rice. Our results demonstrate that manipulation of AMF genetics has important consequences for the symbiotic effects on plants and could be used to enhance the growth of globally important crops.
20542360	An experiment was conducted to reveal the effects of rice cultivation as well as polycyclic aromatic carbohydrates (PAHs) degrading bacterium (Acinetobacter sp.) on the dissipation gradients of two PAHs (PHE and PYR) in the rhizosphere. The results showed that the presence of rice root and bacteria significantly accelerated the dissipation rate of PHE and PYR. The root exudates contributed to the formation of dissipation gradients of PHE and PYR along the vertical direction of roots, with a higher dissipation rate in the rhizosphere and near rhizosphere zone than the soil far away the rhizosphere.
20542361	Hydroponic experiments were carried out to investigate the effects of root anatomy, induced by aeration and stagnation, and Fe plaque on arsenic (III&V) uptake and translocation by rice plants. The results showed that As uptake in rice plants (Gui Chao-2) treated by aeration was decreased due to lower root specific surface area. Rice roots with larger specific surface area tended to form more Fe plaque, and Fe plaque affected As uptake kinetics by changing As influx curves from linear to hyperbolic for As(III) and from hyperbolic to S-curve for As(V). Fe plaque increased As(III&V) adsorption and minimized the effects of root anatomy characteristics on As uptake into roots and subsequently translocation to shoots. Fe plaque increased As(III) uptake rate at As(III) concentrations of 0.5 to approximately 8 mg L(-1), reduced As(V) uptake rate at low As(V) concentrations (<2 mg L(-1)), but increased As uptake rate at high As(V) concentrations (>6 mg L(-1)).
20542891	Strigolactones (SLs) or SL-derived metabolite(s) have recently been shown to act as endogenous inhibitors of axillary bud outgrowth. SLs released from roots induce hyphal branching of arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi that facilitate the uptake of inorganic nutrients, such as phosphate (Pi) and nitrate, by the host plants. Previous studies have shown that SL levels in root exudates are highly elevated by Pi starvation, which might contribute to successful symbiosis with AM fungi in the rhizosphere. However, how endogenous SL levels elevated by Pi starvation contribute to its hormonal action has been unknown. Here, we show that tiller bud outgrowth in wild-type rice seedlings is inhibited, while root 2'-epi-5-deoxystrigol (epi-5DS) levels are elevated, in response to decreasing Pi concentrations in the media. However, the suppression of tiller bud outgrowth under Pi deficiency does not occur in the SL-deficient and -insensitive mutants. We also show that the responsiveness to exogenous SL is slightly increased by Pi deficiency. When Pi-starved seedlings are transferred to Pi-sufficient media, tiller bud outgrowth is induced following a decrease in root epi-5DS levels. Taken together, these results suggest that elevated SL levels by Pi starvation contribute to the inhibition of tiller bud outgrowth in rice seedlings. We speculate that SL plays a dual role in the adaptation to Pi deficiency; one as a rhizosphere signal to maximize AM fungi symbiosis for improved Pi acquisition and the other as an endogenous hormone or its biosynthetic precursor to optimize shoot branching for efficient Pi utilization.
20543845	Quantitative information on growing organs is required to better understand morphogenesis in both plants and animals. However, detailed analyses of growth patterns at cellular resolution have remained elusive. We developed an approach, multiangle image acquisition, three-dimensional reconstruction and cell segmentation-automated lineage tracking (MARS-ALT), in which we imaged whole organs from multiple angles, computationally merged and segmented these images to provide accurate cell identification in three dimensions and automatically tracked cell lineages through multiple rounds of cell division during development. Using these methods, we quantitatively analyzed Arabidopsis thaliana flower development at cell resolution, which revealed differential growth patterns of key regions during early stages of floral morphogenesis. Lastly, using rice roots, we demonstrated that this approach is both generic and scalable.
20543848	The critical day length triggering photoperiodic flowering is set as an acute, accurate threshold in many short-day plants, including rice. Here, we show that, unlike the Arabidopsis florigen gene FT, the rice florigen gene Hd3a (Heading date 3a) is toggled by only a 30-min day-length reduction. Hd3a expression is induced by Ehd1 (Early heading date 1) expression when blue light coincides with the morning phase set by OsGIGANTEA(OsGI)-dependent circadian clocks. Ehd1 expression is repressed by both night breaks under short-day conditions and morning light signals under long-day conditions. Ghd7 (Grain number, plant height and heading date 7) was acutely induced when phytochrome signals coincided with a photosensitive phase set differently by distinct photoperiods and this induction repressed Ehd1 the next morning. Thus, two distinct gating mechanisms--of the floral promoter Ehd1 and the floral repressor Ghd7--could enable manipulation of slight differences in day length to control Hd3a transcription with a critical day-length threshold.
20544229	Rainfed uplands in India are predominantly mono-cropped with rice (Oryza sativa L.) in the wet season (June/July to September/October) and grown under aerobic soil conditions. The remaining fallow period (winter followed by summer) of about 8-9 months leads to natural crash in the population of native arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) in the soil. Attempts have been made to minimize this population crash by reducing soil disturbance-induced deleterious effects on native AMF activity of improperly scheduled off-season tillage, an agronomic recommendation for weed and disease (soil-borne) management, practiced by the upland farmers. On-farm (farmers' field) evaluation of effects of all suitable off-season tillage schedule combinations on rice during wet seasons of 2004, 2005, and 2006 revealed that a maximum of two off-season tillage schedules with a minimum gap of 13 weeks between them minimized the population crash of native AMF with a concomitant increase in phosphorus (P) uptake and grain yield of upland rice (variety "Vandana").
20545147	O3-FACE (Ozone-free air control enrichment) platform has been established for observing the effect of elevated tropospheric ozone concentration on the gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence of two rice varieties (Wuyunjing 21 and Liangyoupeijiu). The results showed that high ozone concentration decreased the net photosynthetic rate (Pn), stomatal conductance (Gs), and transpiration rate (Tr) of rice leaves. After 76d fumigation the decline in them for Wuyunjing 21 was as follows: 21.7%, 26.64% and 24.74% respectively, and that for Liangyoupeijiu was as follows: 25.53%, 30.31% and 25.48% respectively; however, no significant impact on leaf intercellular CO2 concentration was observed. Chlorophyll fluorescence kinetics parameters changed as can be seen by the decrease in F0 (initial fluorescence in the dark), ETR (The apparent electron transfer rate) and psiPSII (actual photochemical efficiency of PS II in the light), and the increase in NPQ (non-photochemical quenching). After 76 days of O3 treatment, the NPQ of Wuyunjing 21 and Liangyoupeijiu was enhanced by 16.37% and 11.77%, respectively. The impact of ozone on rice was a cumulative effect, and the extent of variation in the above parameters and the differences between the two varieties were enlarged as the O3 treatment time increased; At the same time because the rice leaf intercellular CO2 concentration did not significantly reduce, the inferred decrease in net photosynthetic rate was restricted by non-stomatal factors. The results of this experiment indicated that Liangyoupeijiu was more susceptible to ozone than Wuyunjing 21.
20545166	The canopy reflectance of rice was measured in the filed in order to monitor the damaged region caused by Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee. The characteristics of canopy spectral reflectance were analyzed in contrast region and damaged regions. When rice plant was damaged by Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee, the chlorophyll absorption was decreased in the band of 600-700 nm. The canopy reflectance of moderate damage region was lower than that of the contrast region, while the reflectance of severe damage region rice was higher near 550 nm. The canopy reflectance of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee damaged rice was fluctuant and exhibited the significant peak in the NIR band of 750-770nm. Meanwhile, red edge inflection point as one of the most important spectral parameters was analyzed at different damage levels based on the first derivative of reflectance spectra. The analysis results indicated that red edge inflection position moved to direction of blue light (short wavelength) with the affection severity increasing. Then the modified reflectance of rice canopy was calculated based on zero-mean calculation and standard deviation. It was easy to find the degree of deviation from the average of samples and distinguish the damaged region from experiment plots. The canopy modified reflectance was gently in the contrast region, but changed violently in the affected regions in the band of 750-950 nm. The analysis of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee affected regions illustrated that the Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee was increased with the increase in severity. The vegetation index was applied in detection of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee damaged regions because of the composition of multi-wavelength information. The wavelengths 762 and 774 nm were chosen to build detection parameters of Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee such as NIR-RVI, NIR-DVI, NIR-NDVI and KI. The results indicated that the NIR-NDVI could be used to identify the damaged region with contrast region efficiently. The accurate rate of 25 verification samples selected randomly reached 70%. The preliminary studies on rice Cnaphalocrocis medinalis Guenee damaged regions provided a new method to detect the affected regions in the wide area.
20545924	To provide a better understanding of sleeping sickness transmission and spread in mangrove areas to optimize its control. In the Forecariah mangrove area, Guinea, 19 sleeping sickness cases and 19 matched controls were followed up in their living areas (at home, in fields and at water points). All occupational sites and pathways were mapped and then placed in their environmental context. The sleeping sickness cases displayed a significantly broader and more diverse spatial occupation than the controls. They covered double the daily walking distances of controls and had on average two more occupational sites, most of which were located in mangrove forests. Activities with a higher transmission risk (rice culture, attendance of pirogue jetties) were identified as well as high-risk areas and pathways. An entomological control strategy targeting transmission risk areas is proposed. Its implementation in a control programme would reduce by 86% the efforts needed for a classical vector control programme throughout the area. Medical surveys set up at specific locations, such as pirogue jetties and high-risk paths, should also enable better targeting of the population at highest risk.
20546072	The current study was part of a larger investigation of two breeds of growing dogs (Dobenecker, 2002). The apparent digestibility of protein, fat, nitrogen-free extract (N-free extract) and organic matter as well as energy of a tripe and rice-based diet supplemented either with normal calcium [~1.1% dry matter (DM), normal calcium (NC)] or excess calcium [~3.6% DM, high calcium (HC)] was determined in two breeds of growing dogs of different sizes, including 30 Beagles and 44 Foxhound-Boxer-Ingelheim Labrador crossbred dogs (FBIs), at the ages of 12, 18 and 24 weeks. Apparent energy digestibility was significantly impaired by excess of calcium in both dog breeds, and the effect was stronger in FBIs than in Beagles (NC vs. HC in FBIs: 88.3 ± 2.6% vs. 84.7 ± 3.7%; NC vs. HC in Beagles: 89.0 ± 2.4% vs. 86.6 ± 3.4%; p < 0.05 in both FBIs and Beagles). The same was true for organic matter, N-free extract, crude protein and fat. The decrease in protein and fat digestibility was significant in FBIs, but not in Beagles. By contrast, the apparent digestibility of ash was lower in FBIs than in Beagles. Taken together, the results of the current study suggest that excess dietary calcium may be associated with systematic differences in nutrient digestibility by different breeds of dogs.
20546406	The effect of red wine (RW), red grape juice (RGJ), green tea (GT), and representative polyphenols on Caco-2 cell (65)Zn uptake was explored. RW, RGJ, and GT enhanced the uptake of zinc from rice matrix. Fractionation of RW revealed that enhancing activity of zinc uptake was exclusively resided in the polyphenol fraction. Among the polyphenols tested, only tannic acid and quercitin stimulated the uptake of zinc while others did not influence the uptake. In tune with these results, only tannic acid and quercitin competed with zinquin (a zinc selective fluorophore) for zinc in vitro. Although all the polyphenols tested appear to enhance the expression of metallothionein (MT), the induction was higher with tannic acid, quercitin, and RW extract. Furthermore, phytic acid abrogated the tannic acid-induced MT expression. These results suggest that polyphenol-rich beverages, tannic acid, and quercitin bind and stimulate the zinc uptake and MT expression in Caco-2 cells.
20546413	Samples of butternut squash, potatoes, rice, and wheat flour were analyzed. Bacillus spp. and related species belonging to Paenibacillus and Brevibacillus genera were found in 96% of the samples. In butternut squash, predominant species were Bacillus pumilus and Paenibacillus polymyxa together with other Bacillus spp. species (B. cereus, B. licheniformis, B. sphaericus, and B. subtilis). In all the potato samples, Bacillus species were detected (B. cereus, B. mycoides, and B. licheniformis). Also, Bacillus spp. were detected in 100% of the unhusked rice samples, while incidence in white rice samples was 83%. In total rice samples, B. pumilus, Brevibacillus brevis, and Paenibacillus macerans were the main species and B. cereus, P. polymyxa, B. subtilis, and Brevibacillus laterosporus had the lower percentage. The most important species found in wheat flour was P. polymyxa with colony forming units per gram of about 10(2). As the identified species were potentially causatives of foodborne diseases, attention should be given to sanitary and temperature conditions as critical factors that influence the safety and shelf life of these products. Foodborne illness produce by B. cereus have been associated with a wide variety of food. In addition, some other Bacillus species have been related to foodborne disease in humans. Information about the virulence mechanisms of other Bacillus spp. is scanty and their risk is underestimated. Identifying the group of food and the food processes in which Bacillus cereus or other Bacillus spp. would be hazardous for human health is vital for the prevention of foodborne outbreak. In this study, we determined the incidence of Bacillus spp. and related genera in some food items of agriculture origin from Argentina. This research is relevant to identify the presence of potentially pathogen Bacillus species and related genera in this type of food.
20546422	Rice flavor is a significant factor in determining quality and consumer acceptability as exemplified by scented rice, which is highly favored and commands a price premium. Sensory descriptive analysis has primarily been performed to assess rice flavor characteristics, but these studies feature only a limited lexicon for characterizing specific flavors or the range of flavor types is limited. This study was undertaken to establish a descriptive lexicon with reference standards for describing the flavor properties of a broad spectrum of rice types and use the developed lexicon to characterize which sensory attributes are most important in rice flavor quality. A rice flavor lexicon consisting of 24 descriptive notes was developed and expanded by 8 trained sensory panelists to characterize the flavor of cooked rice differing in terms of forms, types, and specialty (n = 36). Of these 24 descriptive terms, 19 were aromatic notes and 5 were fundamental tastes and oral feeling factors. Eighteen aromatic terms were significantly present in most rice samples whereas some descriptors exhibited unique characteristics of a specific-rice type. Subsequent multivariate analysis indicated that 18 descriptive terms were required to fully understand the characteristics of rice flavor in greater details. This lexicon covered a wider range of rice samples than in the previous studies and will facilitate targeting the characteristic notes important to rice processors as well as producers.
20546744	The rice stem borer, Chilo suppressalis, enters facultative diapause as fully grown larvae in response to short-day conditions during the autumn. Our results showed that the critical night length for diapause induction in C. suppressalis was between 10 h 22 min and 10h 45 min at 22, 25 and 28 degrees C, 11 h 18 min at 31 degrees C, and between 10 h 5 min and 10 h 20 min under field conditions (average temperature ranged from 27.2 to 30.7 degrees C). The diapause incidence declined in ultra-long nights (18-22 h scotophases) and DD, and increased in ultra-short nights (2-6 h scotophases) and LL. Moreover, we found that the third instar was the stage most sensitive to the photoperiod, and night length played an essential role in the initiation of diapause. Night-interruption experiments with a 1-h light pulse at LD 12:12 (light 12:dark 12) exhibited two troughs of diapause inhibition, with one occurring in early scotophase and the other in late scotophase. Field observations for six years showed that most larvae entered winter diapause in August in response to declining day lengths, despite the high temperatures prevailing during August. By periodically transferring the field-collected overwintering larvae to different photoperiods and temperatures, the results showed that photoperiod had a significant influence on diapause development during the early phase of diapause, while high temperature significantly accelerated the termination of larval diapause.
20546757	Messenger RNA polyadenylation is one of the essential processing steps during eukaryotic gene expression. The site of polyadenylation [(poly(A) site] marks the end of a transcript, which is also the end of a gene. A computation program that is able to recognize poly(A) sites would not only prove useful for genome annotation in finding genes ends, but also for predicting alternative poly(A) sites. Features that define the poly(A) sites can now be extracted from the poly(A) site datasets to build such predictive models. Using methods, including K-gram pattern, Z-curve, position-specific scoring matrix and first-order inhomogeneous Markov sub-model, numerous features were generated and placed in an original feature space. To select the most useful features, attribute selection algorithms, such as information gain and entropy, were employed. A training model was then built based on the Bayesian network to determine a subset of the optimal features. Test models corresponding to the training models were built to predict poly(A) sites in Arabidopsis and rice. Thus, a prediction model, termed Poly(A) site classifier, or PAC, was constructed. The uniqueness of the model lies in its structure in that each sub-model can be replaced or expanded, while feature generation, selection and classification are all independent processes. Its modular design makes it easily adaptable to different species or datasets. The algorithm's high specificity and sensitivity were demonstrated by testing several datasets and, at the best combinations, they both reached 95%. The software package may be used for genome annotation and optimizing transgene structure.
20547322	Interferons (IFNs) are cytokines that induce an antiviral state in vertebrate cells. The Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar) IFN gene (SasaIFN-alpha1) was introduced in potato and rice plants by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation to produce a biologically active fish IFN in these plants. The transgenes and their transcripts were detected by PCR and Northern blot analysis. Western blot analysis showed the existence of SasaIFN-alpha1in transgenic plants. The antiviral activity of the SasaIFN-alpha1 protein expressed in these plants was determined by the survival rates of pre-treated cultured fish cells against pancreatic necrosis virus infection. The survival rate of cells pre-treated with transgenic samples was up to 95% but was reduced to 30-47% when cells were pre-treated with non-transgenic samples. These results demonstrated an antiviral effect of the SasaIFN-alpha1 protein derived from transgenic plants. Plant-derived IFNs may be suitable as components of functional feeds because such IFNs are free of animal pathogens and can be produced at a lower cost compared with those from transgenic mammalian and bacterial cells. This is the first study describing the production of a biologically active fish IFN using transgenic plants.
20547367	The effects of steam explosion (1.5 MPa, 1 min) on the treatment of rice straw with Pleurotus ostreatus were evaluated in terms of the change in composition of the components and the susceptibility to enzymatic hydrolysis. When rice straw was pretreated with a steam explosion prior to biological treatment, the treatment time required for obtaining a 33% net glucose yield was reduced to 36 days from 60 days. The reduction is probably due to loosening of networks of Klason lignin with sugar moieties and partial collapse of the structure during the biological treatment.
20547591	Recent studies of highly branched mutants of pea, Arabidopsis and rice have demonstrated that strigolactones (SLs) act as hormones that inhibit shoot branching. The identification of genes that work downstream of SLs is required for a better understanding of how SLs control the growth of axillary buds. We found that the increased tillering phenotype of fine culm1 (fc1) mutants of rice is not rescued by the application of 1 microM GR24, a synthetic SL analog. Treatment with a high concentration of GR24 (10 microM) causes suppression of tiller growth in wild-type plants, but is not effective on fc1 mutants, implying that proper FC1 functioning is required for SLs to inhibit bud growth. Overexpression of FC1 partially rescued d3-2 defects in the tiller growth and plant height. An in situ hybridization analysis showed that FC1 mRNA accumulates in axillary buds, the shoot apical meristem, young leaves, vascular tissues and the tips of crown roots. FC1 mRNA expression was not significantly affected by GR24, suggesting that transcriptional induction may not be the mechanism by which SLs affect FC1 functioning. On the other hand, the expression level of FC1 is negatively regulated by cytokinin treatment. We propose that FC1 acts as an integrator of multiple signaling pathways and is essential to the fine-tuning of shoot branching in rice.
20547856	The science of global warming has reached a consensus on the high likelihood of substantial warming over the coming century. Nations have taken only limited steps to reduce greenhouse gas emissions since the first agreement in Kyoto in 1997, and little progress was made at the Copenhagen meeting in December 2009. The present study examines alternative outcomes for emissions, climate change, and damages under different policy scenarios. It uses an updated version of the regional integrated model of climate and the economy (RICE model). Recent projections suggest that substantial future warming will occur if no abatement policies are implemented. The model also calculates the path of carbon prices necessary to keep the increase in global mean temperature to 2 degrees C or less in an efficient manner. The carbon price for 2010 associated with that goal is estimated to be $59 per ton (at 2005 prices), compared with an effective global average price today of around $5 per ton. However, it is unlikely that the Copenhagen temperature goal will be attained even if countries meet their ambitious stated objectives under the Copenhagen Accord.
20548009	Because of differences in processing and nutrients, brown rice and white rice may have different effects on risk of type 2 diabetes mellitus. We examined white and brown rice consumption in relation to type 2 diabetes risk prospectively in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study and the Nurses' Health Study I and II. We prospectively ascertained and updated diet, lifestyle practices, and disease status among 39,765 men and 157,463 women in these cohorts. After multivariate adjustment for age and other lifestyle and dietary risk factors, higher intake of white rice (> or =5 servings per week vs <1 per month) was associated with a higher risk of type 2 diabetes: pooled relative risk (95% confidence interval [CI]), 1.17 (1.02-1.36). In contrast, high brown rice intake (> or =2 servings per week vs <1 per month) was associated with a lower risk of type 2 diabetes: pooled relative risk, 0.89 (95% CI, 0.81-0.97). We estimated that replacing 50 g/d (cooked,equivalent to one-third serving per day) intake of white rice with the same amount of brown rice was associated with a 16% (95% CI, 9%-21%) lower risk of type 2 diabetes,whereas the same replacement with whole grains as a group was associated with a 36% (30%-42%) lower diabetes risk [corrected]. Substitution of whole grains, including brown rice, for white rice may lower risk of type 2 diabetes. These data support the recommendation that most carbohydrate intake should come from whole grains rather than refined grains to help prevent type 2 diabetes.
20548840	The Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination Surveys reported 65% of daily energy intake (EI) as carbohydrate (CHO) in the Korean population and main source of CHO was cooked rice. We used a standardized-small sized rice bowl for diet education and investigated its effectiveness on body weight, glucose and lipid, compared to the conventional food exchange system in type 2 diabetes obese women. Type 2 diabetic women with body mass index >/= 23 kg/m(2) were randomly assigned to small rice bowl-based meal plan (BM) and food exchange-based meal plan (ExM) group. Both groups were asked to reduce their EI by 500 kcal/day for 12 weeks. The macronutrient composition was instructed: 55 to 60% of EI as CHO, 15 to 20% as protein, and 20 to 25% as fat. BM group received only a simple instruction for application of the rice bowl. Nutrient intake was estimated with the 3-day dietary records. Finally, 44 subjects finished the study. The percent reduction of body weight was significant both BM group (-5.1 +/- 2.6%) and ExM group (-4.8 +/- 2.8%) after 12 weeks (P < 0.001) but there was no difference between the groups. There was no difference in the proportional change of CHO, protein and fat in EI between the groups. Additionally, the change of HbA1c and low density lipoprotein-cholesterol were not significantly different between the two groups. The BM group was as effective as ExM for body weight and glucose control in type 2 diabetes obese women.
20549230	Carotenoids are converted by carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases that catalyze oxidative cleavage reactions leading to apocarotenoids. However, apocarotenoids can also be further truncated by some members of this enzyme family. The plant carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase 1 (CCD1) subfamily is known to degrade both carotenoids and apocarotenoids in vitro, leading to different volatile compounds. In this study, we investigated the impact of the rice CCD1 (OsCCD1) on the pigmentation of Golden Rice 2 (GR2), a genetically modified rice variety accumulating carotenoids in the endosperm. For this purpose, the corresponding cDNA was introduced into the rice genome under the control of an endosperm-specific promoter in sense and anti-sense orientations. Despite high expression levels of OsCCD1 in sense plants, pigment analysis revealed carotenoid levels and patterns comparable to those of GR2, pleading against carotenoids as substrates in rice endosperm. In support, similar carotenoid contents were determined in anti-sense plants. To check whether OsCCD1 overexpressed in GR2 endosperm is active, in vitro assays were performed with apocarotenoid substrates. HPLC analysis confirmed the cleavage activity of introduced OsCCD1. Our data indicate that apocarotenoids rather than carotenoids are the substrates of OsCCD1 in planta.
20549432	Nitrogen (N) availability is a key role in food and fiber production. Providing plant-available N through synthetic fertilizer in the 20th and early 21st century has been a major contributor to the increased production required to feed and clothe the growing human population. To continue to meet the global demands and to minimize environmental problems, significant improvements are needed in the efficiency with which fertilizer N is utilized within production systems. There are still major uncertainties regarding the fate of fertilizer N added to agricultural soils and the potential for reducing losses to the environment. Enhancing the technical and economic efficiency of fertilizer N is seen to promote a favorable situation for both agricultural production and the environment, and this has provided much of the impetus for a new N fertilizer project. To address this important issue, a rapid assessment project on N fertilizer (NFRAP) was conducted by SCOPE (the Scientific Committee on Problems of the Environment) during late 2003 and early 2004. This was the first formal project of the International Nitrogen Initiative (INI). As part of this assessment, a successful international workshop was held in Kampala, Uganda on 12 -16 January, 2004. This workshop brought together scientists from around the world to assess the fate of synthetic fertilizer N in the context of overall N inputs to agricultural systems, with a view to enhancing the efficiency of N use and reducing negative impacts on the environment. Regionalization of the assessment highlighted the problems of too little N for crop production to meet the nutrient requirements of sub-Saharan Africa and the oversupply of N in the major rice-growing areas of China. The results of the assessment are presented in a book (SCOPE 65) which is now available to provide a basis for further discussions on N fertilizer.
20549443	It has been forecast that the challenge of meeting increased food demand and protecting environmental quality will be won or lost in maize, rice and wheat cropping systems, and that the problem of environmental nitrogen enrichment is most likely to be solved by substituting synthetic nitrogen fertilizers by the creation of cereal crops that are able to fix nitrogen symbiotically as legumes do. In legumes, rhizobia present intracellularly in membrane-bound vesicular compartments in the cytoplasm of nodule cells fix nitrogen endosymbiotically. Within these symbiosomes, membrane-bound vesicular compartments, rhizobia are supplied with energy derived from plant photosynthates and in return supply the plant with biologically fixed nitrogen, usually as ammonia. This minimizes or eliminates the need for inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers. Recently we have demonstrated, using novel inoculation conditions with very low numbers of bacteria, that cells of root meristems of maize, rice, wheat and other major non-legume crops, such as oilseed rape and tomato, can be intracellularly colonized by the non-rhizobial, non-nodulating, nitrogen fixing bacterium,Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus that naturally occurs in sugarcane.G. diazotrophicus expressing nitrogen fixing (nifH) genes is present in symbiosome-like compartments in the cytoplasm of cells of the root meristems of the target cereals and non-legume crop species, somewhat similar to the intracellular symbiosome colonization of legume nodule cells by rhizobia. To obtain an indication of the likelihood of adequate growth and yield, of maize for example, with reduced inputs of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers, we are currently determining the extent to which nitrogen fixation, as assessed using various methods, is correlated with the extent of systemic intracellular colonization byG. diazotrophicus, with minimal or zero inputs.
20549444	As rice can use both nitrate (NO(3)(-)) and ammonium (NH(4)(+)), we have tested the hypothesis that the shift in the pattern of cultivars grown in Jiangsu Province reflects the ability of the plants to exploit NO(3)(-) as a nitrogen (N) source. Four rice cultivars were grown in solution culture for comparison of their growth on NO(3)(-) and NH(4)(+) nitrogen sources. All four types of rice, Xian You 63 (XY63), Yang Dao 6 (YD), Nong Keng 57 (NK) and Si You 917 (SY917), grew well and produced similar amounts of shoot biomass with 1 mmol/L NH(4)(+) as the only N source. However, the roots of NK were significantly smaller in comparison with the other cultivars. When supplied with 1 mmol/L NO(3)(-), YD produced the greatest biomass; while NK achieved the lowest growth among the four cultivars. Electrophysiological measurements on root rhizodermal cells showed that the NO(3)(-)-elicited changes in membrane potential (Delta E(m)) of these four rice cultivars were significantly different when exposed to low external NO(3)(-) (<1 mmol/L); while they were very similar at high external NO(3)(-) (10 mmol/L). The root cell membrane potentials of YD and XY63 were more responsive to low external NO(3)(-) than those of NK and SY917. The Delta E(m) values for YD and XY63 rhizodermal cells were almost the same at both 0.1 mmol/L and 1 mmol/L NO(3)(-); while for the NK and SY917 the values became larger as the external NO(3)(-) increased. For YD cultivar, Delta E(m) was measured over a range of NO(3)(-) concentrations and a Michaelis-Menten fit to the data gave aK(m) value of 0.17 mmol/L. Net N(3)(-) uptake depletion kinetics were also compared and for some cultivars (YD and XY63) a single-phase uptake system with first order kinetics best fitted the data; while other cultivars (ND and SY917) showed a better fit to two uptake systems. These uptake systems had two affinity ranges: one had a similar K(m) in all the cultivars (0.2 mmol/L); the other much higher affinity system (0.03 mmol/L) was only present in NK and SY917. The expression pattern of twelve different N(3)(-) transporter genes was tested using specific primers, but only OsNRT1. 1 and OsNRT2.1 expression could be detected showing significant differences between the four rice cultivars. The results from both the physiological and molecular experiments do provide some support for the hypothesis that the more popular rice cultivars grown in Jiangsu Province may be better at using NO(3)(-) as an N source.
20549446	Nitrogen is one of the major plant nutrients without which the agricultural production is not possible. Nitrogen use in Indian agriculture was nearly 55000 tons in 1950-1951 that increased to 11.31 million tons in 2001-2002. The total food production of the country has also experienced the similar increase from 50.83 to 222 million tons in the respective years. Interestingly the N fertilizer consumption of India remained almost constant during the last six years indicating the possibility of reducing N consumption. The highest N consumption is in North zone owing to the introduction of rice-wheat cropping system followed by West, South and East. The N use efficiency has been reported to be varying between 30% to 50% depending on the crops and the management. But in most of the cases, N use efficiency has been calculated based on the total N removed by the crops (above ground part only) ignoring the N content left in the roots. It has been observed in controlled experiments that the total N uptake by roots varied from 18% to 44% of the total N removed by the above ground parts, i.e. grain and straw. If the root N is also accounted, the N use efficiency will be higher than reported. The management of other organic sources has to be improved so as to increase the fertilizer use efficiency as well as to check the direct release of N in the atmosphere. In this review all these issues will be dealt.
20549447	Fertilizer N use in Japan has decreased by about 30% from 1960 to 2000, while keeping a little increase in cereal yields. This has resulted in a significant increase in apparent nitrogen use efficiency, in particular for rice. On the other hand, national N load on the environment associated with the production and consumption of domestic and imported agricultural products has almost tripled during this period, mainly due to the dramatic increase of imports of food and feedstuffs. The environmental problems, including water and air pollution, caused by the excessive loads of N are serious public concerns and there is an urgent need to minimize N losses from agricultural production. In order to meet the necessity for reducing the environmental impacts by excess N, political and technological measures have been taken at regional and country levels. In recent years, the Japanese government has embarked on a series of policies to encourage transition to an environmentally conscious agriculture. Promoting proper material circulation with reducing fertilizer impact and utilizing biomass and livestock wastes is emphasized in these policies. The effectiveness of environmental assessment and planning for reducing regional and national N load has been discussed. Implementation of environmentally friendly technologies and management, both conventional and innovational, have been developed and adopted in Japanese agriculture. The effectiveness of conventional technologies in reducing environmental reactive N has been re-evaluated. Innovative technologies, such as use of controlled availability fertilizers and livestock wastes compost pellets, are being investigated and extended. A comprehensive approach that applies political and technological measures with closer co-operation is necessary to control reactive N in the environment.
20549627	Rice fields are frequently exposed to environmental contamination by herbicides and cyanobacteria, as primary producers of these aquatic ecosystems, are adversely affected. Anabaena cylindrica is a cyanobacterium with a significantly widespread occurrence in Portuguese rice fields. This strain was studied throughout 72 h in laboratory conditions for its stress responses to sublethal concentrations (0.75-2 mM) of bentazon, a selective postemergence herbicide recommended for integrated weed management in rice, with special reference to oxidative stress, role of proline and intracellular antioxidant enzymes in herbicide-induced free radicals detoxification. Activities of antioxidant enzymes such as superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), ascorbate peroxidase (APX), and glutathione S-transferase (GST) increased in a time- and herbicide dose-response manner and were higher than those in the control samples after 72 h. A time- and concentration-dependent increase of malondialdehyde (MDA) levels and the enhanced cell membrane leakage following bentazon exposure are indicative of lipid peroxidation, free radicals formation, and oxidative damage, while increased amounts of SOD, CAT, APX, GST, and proline indicated their involvement in free radical scavenging mechanisms. The appreciable decline in the reduced glutathione (GSH) pool after 72 h at higher bentazon concentrations could be explained by the reduction of the NADPH-dependent glutathione reductase (GR) activity. The obtained results suggested that the alterations of antioxidant systems in A. cylindrica might be useful biomarkers of bentazon exposure. As the toxic mechanism of bentazon is a complex phenomenon, this study also adds relevant findings to explain the oxidative stress pathways of bentazon promoting oxidative stress in cyanobacteria.
20550395	A theory that describes the non-RRKM (non-Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus) effects in the lifetime statistics of activated ozone molecules is derived. The non-RRKM effects are shown to originate due to the diffusive energy exchange between vibrational and rotational degrees of freedom in ozone molecule. The lifetime statistics is found to be intramolecular diffusion controlled at long times. The theoretical results are in good agreement with the direct MD simulations of lifetime statistics.
20550399	The dynamics of photoinduced reactions between electronically excited SO(2) molecule (A (1)A(2)<--X (1)A(1)) and acetylene molecule (X (1)Sigma(g) (+)) in the SO(2)-acetylene van der Waals (vdW) complexes (clusters) was studied. The SO(2) molecule was excited by frequency-doubled radiation of a tunable dye laser, and resonance enhancement multiphoton photoionization of the produced photofragments was induced by ArF (193 nm) laser radiation or by frequency-doubled radiation of a second tunable dye laser to observe the C(2)H radical. The HOSO radical was detected by its IR emission. We found that the main photodecomposition channel of the vdW complexes (clusters) involves the SO(2) (*)+C(2)H(2)-->HOSO+C(2)H reaction. Indeed, the analysis of the action spectra of the excitation laser radiation showed that the photofragments emerging in our experimental conditions (SO(2), 5%; C(2)H(2), 5%; and Xe; P(0)=2 atm) originate from the SO(2)...C(2)H(2) vdW complex (cluster). We analyzed the structure of this vdW complex theoretically, obtaining C(s) symmetry, with the acetylene molecule located above the OSO plane. The resonance-enhanced multiphoton photoionization action spectra of the C(2)H (A<--X) photofragmentation and the IR emission spectra of the HOSO radical allowed the authors to probe the energy distribution between the photofragments formed. The reaction that involves transition of the acetylene H atom to the SO(2) oxygen should be the primary step of the process considered, followed by nonstatistic dissociation of the vdW complex (cluster), with the C(2)H radical formed in its vibrationless state and excited both rotationally and translationally, and the HOSO radical excited vibrationally, rotationally and translationally. The proposed reaction mechanism was discussed, employing transition-state and Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus (RRKM) approaches. The kinetics of photofragment formation was investigated, yielding characteristic radical build-up time of 0.64 micros.
20550634	Invasive species are ideal model systems to investigate the evolutionary processes associated with their ecological success by comparison with closely related species. In this article, we explore transcriptome evolution following divergence between two closely related salt-marsh species, the invasive Spartina alterniflora (native to the East-American Atlantic coast, introduced in several continents) and the declining Spartina maritima (native to the Euro-African Atlantic coast). We have explored the utility of cross-species hybridization microarrays using rice (Oryza sativa) oligo-microarrays to compare leaf expression patterns between these species. Coding sequence comparisons from 10 nuclear genes (2256 bp) revealed that nucleotide divergence between Spartina and Oryza range from 8% to 14%. More than 70% of the 60-mer oligonucleotide sequences spotted on the rice microarray exhibited stable and repeatable patterns when hybridized against Spartina RNA. In total, 9353 (44.5%) genes on the array hybridized with both species S. maritima and S. alterniflora. Among these genes, 1247 genes were found to be differentially expressed between the two Spartina species, most of them (957) being up-regulated in S. alterniflora. In particular, developmental and cellular growth genes (gene ontology, biological process) were highly up-regulated in S. alterniflora and down-regulated in S. maritima, whereas genes involved in stress response were up-regulated in S. maritima. Our findings indicate the suitability of cross-species microarray hybridization between Spartina and O. sativa and reveal the extent of leaf transcriptome evolution that took place during the divergence between S. alterniflora and S. maritima. Expression patterns are consistent with the morphological differentiation and differential expansion of the two species.
20550656	Weedy rice (red rice), a conspecific weed of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.), is a significant problem throughout the world and an emerging threat in regions where it was previously absent. Despite belonging to the same species complex as domesticated rice and its wild relatives, the evolutionary origins of weedy rice remain unclear. We use genome-wide patterns of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) variation in a broad geographic sample of weedy, domesticated, and wild Oryza samples to infer the origin and demographic processes influencing U.S. weedy rice evolution. We find greater population structure than has been previously reported for U.S. weedy rice, and that the multiple, genetically divergent populations have separate origins. The two main U.S. weedy rice populations share genetic backgrounds with cultivated O. sativa varietal groups not grown commercially in the U.S., suggesting weed origins from domesticated ancestors. Hybridization between weedy groups and between weedy rice and local crops has also led to the evolution of distinct U.S. weedy rice populations. Demographic simulations indicate differences among the main weedy groups in the impact of bottlenecks on their establishment in the U.S., and in the timing of divergence from their cultivated relatives. Unlike prior research, we did not find unambiguous evidence for U.S. weedy rice originating via hybridization between cultivated and wild Oryza species. Our results demonstrate the potential for weedy life-histories to evolve directly from within domesticated lineages. The diverse origins of U.S. weedy rice populations demonstrate the multiplicity of evolutionary forces that can influence the emergence of weeds from a single species complex.
20550680	To ensure sustainable routine surveillance of mosquito vectors, simple, effective and ethically acceptable tools are required. As a part of that, we evaluated the efficiency of resting boxes baited with fresh and aging cattle urine for indoor and outdoor sampling of An. arabiensis in the lower Moshi rice irrigation schemes. A cattle urine treatment and re-treatment schedule was used, including a box with a piece of cloth re-treated with urine daily, and once after 3 and 7 day. Resting box with piece of black cloth not treated with urine was used as a control. Each treatment was made in pair for indoor and outdoor sampling. A 4 by 4 Latin square design was used to achieve equal rotation of each of the four treatments across the experimental houses. Sampling was done over a period of 6 months, once per week. A total of 7871 mosquitoes were collected throughout the study period. 49.8% of the mosquitoes were collected from resting box treated with urine daily; 21.6% and 20.0% were from boxes treated 3 and 7 days respectively. Only 8.6% were from untreated resting box (control). The proportion collected indoors was approximately 2 folds greater than the outdoor. Of all mosquitoes, 12.3% were unfed, 4.1% full fed, 34.2% semi-gravid and 49.4% gravid. Fresh and decaying cattle urine odour baited resting boxes offer an alternative tool for sampling particularly semi-gravid and gravid An. arabiensis. Evaluation in low density seasons of An. arabiensis in different ecological settings remains necessary. This sampling method may be standardized for replacing human landing catch.
20552360	A total of 216 bacterial strains were isolated from rice rhizospheric soils in Northern Thailand. The bacterial strains were initially tested for solubilization of inorganic phosphate, indole acetic acid (IAA) production, selected strains were then tested for optimized conditions for IAA production and whether these caused stimulatory effects on bean and maize seedling growth. It was found that all strains had solubilized inorganic phosphate (P), but only 18.05% produced IAA. The best IAA producer was identified by biochemical testing and 16S rDNA sequence analysis as Klebsiella SN 1.1. In addition to being the best IAA producer, this strain was a high P-solubilizer and produced the highest amount of IAA (291.97 ± 0.19 ppm) in culture media supplemented with L-tryptophan. The maximum production of IAA was achieved after 9 days of incubation. The culture requirements were optimized for maximum IAA production. The tested of IAA production by selected isolates was studied in a medium with 0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, 0.7, and 0.9% (v/v) L-tryptophan. Low levels (12.6 ppm) of IAA production was recorded without tryptophan addition. Production of IAA in Klebsiella SN 1.1 increased with an increase to 0.2% (v/v) tryptophan concentration. The production of IAA was further confirmed by extraction of crude IAA from this isolate and subsequent Thin Layer Chromatography (TLC) analysis. A specific spot from the extracted IAA production was found to correspond with a standard spot of IAA with the same R (f) value. The Klebsiella strain SN 1.1 also demonstrated stimulatory effects on bean seedlings in vivo.
20553076	No observational study has examined whether cancer-related biomarkers are associated with diet in Japanese. We therefore assessed sex-specific food and nutrient intakes according to serum IGF-I, IGF-II, IGFBP-3, TGF-b1, total SOD activity and sFas levels, under a cross-sectional study of 10,350 control subjects who answered the food frequency questionnaire in the first-wave nested case-control study within the Japan Collaborative Cohort Study. For both men and women, IGF-I levels were associated with higher intakes of milk, fruits, green tea, calcium and vitamin C. IGF-II levels were associated with higher intakes of milk, yogurt, fruits and miso soup, and lower intakes of rice, coffee and carbohydrate. IGFBP-3 levels were associated with higher intakes of milk, yogurt, fruits and vitamin C, and lower intakes of rice, energy, protein, carbohydrate, sodium and polyunsaturated fatty acids. TGF-b1 levels were associated with lower intakes of coffee intakes, and higher intakes of miso soup and sodium. Total SOD activity levels were associated with lower intakes of most nutrients other than energy, carbohydrate, iron, copper, manganese, retinol equivalents, vitamin A, B2, B12, niacin, folic acid, vitamin C and fish fat. sFas levels were associated with higher intakes of manganese and folic acids. The results of the present study should help to account for findings on those biomarkers regarding risks of cancer and other lifestyle-related diseases in terms of dietary confounding as causality.
20553339	Isolation and characterization of the clinically relevant amphizoic amoebas in vegetated farmlands, which may present a risk to farmers' health. Acanthamoeba species was isolated and characterized via morphological and molecular means in the rice field where the patient was exposed to rice paddy water which most probably was the point of infection. An Acanthamoeba sp. abundant in the rice field was identified. Genotyping showed the strain to be genotype T4, which was identical to the amoebic parasite found in patient's cerebrospinal fluid. During the course of the study, three nonpathogenic free-living amoeba species were also isolated and characterized for the first time in Taiwan. This study successfully located a possible source of granulomatous amoebic encephalitis in a patient and provided the first evidence that Acanthamoeba genotype T4 may be a potential pathogen in Taiwan. The integration of field survey, clinical data and morphological and genetic examination represents a sound strategy for investigation of the possible role of free-living amoebae in causing human diseases. Future work should include investigating the potential contributory role of other nonpathogenic free-living protozoa in disease of livestock or even human.
20553598	Previous studies, conducted in the urban of Antananarivo, showed low rate of confirmed malaria cases. We used a geographical and environmental approach to investigate the contribution of environmental factors to urban malaria in Antananarivo. Remote sensing data were used to locate rice fields, which were considered to be the principal mosquito breeding sites. We carried out supervised classification by the maximum likelihood method. Entomological study allowed vector species determination from collected larval and adult mosquitoes. Mosquito infectivity was studied, to assess the risk of transmission, and the type of mosquito breeding site was determined. Epidemiological data were collected from November 2006 to December 2007, from public health centres, to determine malaria incidence. Polymerase chain reaction was carried out on dried blood spots from patients, to detect cases of malaria. Rapid diagnostic tests were used to confirm malaria cases among febrile school children in a school survey.A geographical information system was constructed for data integration. Altitude, temperature, rainfall, population density and rice field surface area were analysed and the effects of these factors on the occurrence of confirmed malaria cases were studied. Polymerase chain reaction confirmed malaria in 5.1% of the presumed cases. Entomological studies showed An. arabiensis as potential vector. Rice fields remained to be the principal breeding sites. Travel report was considered as related to the occurrence of P. falciparum malaria cases. Geographical and environmental factors did not show direct relationship with malaria incidence but they seem ensuring suitability of vector development. Absence of relationship may be due to a lack of statistical power. Despite the presence of An. arabiensis, scarce parasitic reservoir and rapid access to health care do not constitute optimal conditions to a threatening malaria transmission. However, imported malaria case is suggestive to sustain the pocket transmission in Antananarivo.
20553621	Physical maps employing libraries of bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) clones are essential for comparative genomics and sequencing of large and repetitive genomes such as those of the hexaploid bread wheat. The diploid ancestor of the D-genome of hexaploid wheat (Triticum aestivum), Aegilops tauschii, is used as a resource for wheat genomics. The barley diploid genome also provides a good model for the Triticeae and T. aestivum since it is only slightly larger than the ancestor wheat D genome. Gene co-linearity between the grasses can be exploited by extrapolating from rice and Brachypodium distachyon to Ae. tauschii or barley, and then to wheat. We report the use of Ae. tauschii for the construction of the physical map of a large distal region of chromosome arm 3DS. A physical map of 25.4 Mb was constructed by anchoring BAC clones of Ae. tauschii with 85 EST on the Ae. tauschii and barley genetic maps. The 24 contigs were aligned to the rice and B. distachyon genomic sequences and a high density SNP genetic map of barley. As expected, the mapped region is highly collinear to the orthologous chromosome 1 in rice, chromosome 2 in B. distachyon and chromosome 3H in barley. However, the chromosome scale of the comparative maps presented provides new insights into grass genome organization. The disruptions of the Ae. tauschii-rice and Ae. tauschii-Brachypodium syntenies were identical. We observed chromosomal rearrangements between Ae. tauschii and barley. The comparison of Ae. tauschii physical and genetic maps showed that the recombination rate across the region dropped from 2.19 cM/Mb in the distal region to 0.09 cM/Mb in the proximal region. The size of the gaps between contigs was evaluated by comparing the recombination rate along the map with the local recombination rates calculated on single contigs. The physical map reported here is the first physical map using fingerprinting of a complete Triticeae genome. This study demonstrates that global fingerprinting of the large plant genomes is a viable strategy for generating physical maps. Physical maps allow the description of the co-linearity between wheat and grass genomes and provide a powerful tool for positional cloning of new genes.
20556647	This study was aimed at assessing the levels of 210Pb and 210Po concentrations as well as gross alpha and beta activities in environmental monitors from the Catalan stretch of the Ebro River (Spain), potentially influenced by the presence of sediments with high concentrations of 238U and its decay chain daughters in the Flix reservoir. The chronic daily intake of 210Pb and 210Po through ingestion and inhalation of soils was evaluated, and the derived non-carcinogenic and carcinogenic risks were characterized. The low concentration of radioisotopes in soils resulted in a negligible annual effective dose. The levels of 210Pb and 210Po were determined in various groups of highly consumed food (fish and seafood, vegetables, fruits, and rice), and their dietary intake was calculated. The annual effective dose for the adult people from food intake was estimated in 3.3×10(-2) mSv, mostly due to 210Po. Overall, the current radioactivity levels in the Catalan stretch of the Ebro River should not mean any additional health risk for the population living nearby. However, an integral assessment of the risks derived from exposure to other pollutants (e.g., metals and organochlorine compounds) jointly with radionuclides could be of great interest.
20557892	This paper reports a comprehensive sensitive multi-residue liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method for detection, identification and quantitation of 73 pesticides and their related products, a total of 98 analytes, belonging to organophosphorus pesticides (OPPs) and carbamates, in foods. The proposed method makes use of a modified QuEChERS (quick, easy, cheap, effective, rigged, and safe) procedure that combines isolation of the pesticides and sample clean-up in a single step. Analysis is performed by liquid chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry operated in the multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) mode, acquiring two specific precursor-product ion transitions per target compound. Two main fragment ions for each pesticide were obtained to achieve the identification according to the SANCO guidelines 10684/2009. The method was validated with various food samples, including edible oil, meat, egg, cheese, chocolate, coffee, rice, tree nuts, citric fruits, vegetables, etc. No significant matrix effect was observed for tested pesticides, therefore, matrix-matched calibration was not necessary. Calibration curves were linear and covered from 1 to 20 microg L(-1) for all compounds studied. The average recoveries, measured at 10 microg kg(-1), were in the range 70-120% for all of the compounds tested with relative standard deviations below 20%, while a value of 10 microg kg(-1) has been established as the method limit of quantitation (MLOQ) for all target analytes. Similar trueness and precision results were also obtained for spiking at 200 microg kg(-1). Expanded uncertainty values were in the range 21-27% while the HorRat ratios were below 1. The method has been successfully applied to the analysis of 700 food samples in the course of a baseline monitoring study of OPPs and carbamates.
20558897	Cool temperature conditions are known to lead to pollen sterility in rice. Pollen sterility is an agriculturally important phenomenon because it imparts a large influence directly on rice yield. However, cool temperature stress tolerance varies among rice cultivars and avoidance of cool temperature stress is difficult by practical method of agriculture. In this study using two rice cultivars, Hitomebore (high tolerance) and Sasanishiki (low tolerance), we analyzed morphological features and gene expression profiles, under cool temperature stress, in anther development of rice. Hitomebore was given cool temperature stress (19 degrees C) at flowering stage, and showed 87.3% seed fertility. Meanwhile, the seed fertility decreased to 41.7% in the case of Sasanishiki. A transverse section of Hitomebore anther revealed that the degradation of the tapetum started at the uninucleate microspore stage, and the tapetum had completely vanished at mature stage. The tapetum provides nutrients for pollen development, and its degradation occurs at a late stage in pollen development. In contrast, degradation of the tapetum did not occur at the uninucleate microspore stage in Sasanishiki, and the tapetum was clearly intact at mature stage, suggesting that tapetum degradation is critical for accurate pollen development and cool temperature tolerance correlated with the degree of tapetum degeneration. In gene expression analysis of anther, 356 genes that showed different expression levels between two cultivars at cool temperatures were found. These genes will lead to understanding the mechanism of cool temperature stress response in rice pollen development and the identification of genes involved in accurate tapetum degradation.
20558932	In the autumn two patients with general malaise were consecutively admitted to the department of internal medicine of our hospital in the northern region of Nagasaki Prefecture. Since both patients were engaged in rice farm work and showed conjunctival suffusion and pain of the gastrocnemius muscle, leptospirosis was suspected. The first patient required temporary hemodialysis for renal dysfunction, whereas liver dysfunction developed in the second patient. The disease was remitted by antimicrobial agents. A diagnosis of leptospirosis was made serologically in both patients. Leptospirosis should be considered as a differential diagnosis when a patient engaged in farm work in the autumn has typical symptoms, and an early initiation of treatment after onset is important.
20559817	Some durum wheat (Triticum turgidum L. var durum) cultivars have the genetic propensity to accumulate cadmium (Cd) in the grain. A major gene controlling grain Cd concentration designated as Cdu1 has been reported on 5B, but the genetic factor(s) conferring the low Cd phenotype are currently unknown. The objectives of this study were to saturate the chromosomal region harboring Cdu1 with newly developed PCR-based markers and to investigate the colinearity of this wheat chromosomal region with rice (Oryza sativa L.) and Brachypodium distachyon genomes. Genetic mapping of markers linked to Cdu1 in a population of recombinant inbred substitution lines revealed that the gene(s) associated with variation in Cd concentration resides in wheat bin 5BL9 between fraction breakpoints 0.76 and 0.79. Genetic mapping and quantitative trait locus (QTL) analysis of grain Cd concentration was performed in 155 doubled haploid lines from the cross W9262-260D3 (low Cd) by Kofa (high Cd) revealed two expressed sequence tag markers (ESMs) and one sequence tagged site (STS) marker that co-segregated with Cdu1 and explained >80% of the phenotypic variation in grain Cd concentration. A second, minor QTL for grain Cd concentration was also identified on 5B, 67 cM proximal to Cdu1. The Cdu1 interval spans 286 kbp of rice chromosome 3 and 282 kbp of Brachypodium chromosome 1. The markers and rice and Brachypodium colinearity described here represent tools that will assist in the positional cloning of Cdu1 and can be used to select for low Cd accumulation in durum wheat breeding programs targeting this trait. The isolation of Cdu1 will further our knowledge of Cd accumulation in cereals as well as metal accumulation in general.
20560333	In order to understand the relationships of the population increase capacities between egg parasitoid Trichogramma japonicum Ashmead (Hymenoptera: Trichogrammatidae) and two rice borers Chilo suppressalis Walker and Chilaraea auricilia Dudgeon (Lepidoptera: Pyralidae), and to evaluate the control efficacy of T. japonicum against C. suppressalis and C. auricilia, life table method was adopted to establish the experimental population life tables of the two rice borers and the population fecundity tables of T. japonicum on the two hosts, and to estimate the fecundity and parasitism capacity of T. japonicum on the two hosts. The generation period (T) of C. suppressalis and C. auricilia was 56.40 d and 47.80 d, and their intrinsic rate of natural increase (r(m)) was 0.0489 and 0.072; while the T of T. japonicum on C. suppressalis and C. auricilia was 9.75 d and 9.78 d, and the r(m) was 0.3154 and 0.3161, respectively. These parameters indicated that T. japonicum could control the two rice borers effectively.
20560340	Based on the differences of back scattering coefficient in ENVISAT ASAR data, a classification was made on the towns, waters, and vegetation-covered areas in the Four Lakes Region of Hubei Province. According to the local cropping systems and phenological characteristics in the region, and by using the discrepancies of the MODIS-NDVI index from late April to early May, the vegetation-covered areas were classified into croplands and non-croplands. The classification results based on the above-mentioned procedure was verified by the classification results based on the ETM data with high spatial resolution. Based on the DEM data, the non-croplands were categorized into forest land and bottomland; and based on the discrepancies of mean NDVI index per month, the crops were identified as mid rice, late rice, and cotton, and the croplands were identified as paddy field and upland field. The land cover classification based on the MODIS data with low spatial resolution was basically consistent with that based on the ETM data with high spatial resolution, and the total error rate was about 13.15% when the classification results based on ETM data were taken as the standard. The utilization of the above-mentioned procedures for large scale land cover classification and mapping could make the fast tracking of regional land cover classification.
20561248	Non-expresser of pathogenesis-related genes 1 (NPR1) is the master regulator of salicylic acid-mediated systemic acquired resistance. Over-expression of Arabidopsis NPR1 and rice NH1 (NPR1 homolog1)/OsNPR1 in rice results in enhanced resistance. While there are four rice NPR1 paralogs in the rice genome, none have been demonstrated to function in disease resistance. To study rice NPR1 paralog 3, we introduced constructs into rice and tested for effects on resistance to infection by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal agent of bacterial blight. While over-expression of NH3 using the maize ubiquitin-1 promoter failed to enhance resistance, introduction of an extra copy of NH3 driven by its own promoter (nNT-NH3) resulted in clear, enhanced resistance. Progeny analysis confirms that the enhanced resistance phenotype, measured by Xoo-induced lesion length, is associated with the NH3 transgene. Bacterial growth curve analysis indicates that bacterial population levels are reduced 10-fold in nNT-NH3 lines compared to control rice lines. The transgenic plants exhibit higher sensitivity to benzothiadiazole (BTH) and 2,6-dichloroisonicotinic acid (INA) treatment as measured by increased cell death. Expression analysis of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes showed that nNT-NH3 plants display greatly enhanced induction of PR genes only after treatment with BTH. Our study demonstrates an alternative method to employ a regulatory protein to enhance plant defence. This approach avoids using undesirable constitutive, high-level expression and may prove to be more practical for engineering resistance.
20561251	Sumoylation is a post-translational regulatory process in diverse cellular processes in eukaryotes, involving conjugation/deconjugation of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) proteins to other proteins thus modifying their function. The PIAS [protein inhibitor of activated signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT)] and SAP (scaffold attachment factor A/B/acinus/PIAS)/MIZ (SIZ) proteins exhibit SUMO E3-ligase activity that facilitates the conjugation of SUMO proteins to target substrates. Here, we report the isolation and molecular characterization of Oryza sativa SIZ1 (OsSIZ1) and SIZ2 (OsSIZ2), rice homologs of Arabidopsis SIZ1. The rice SIZ proteins are localized to the nucleus and showed sumoylation activities in a tobacco system. Our analysis showed increased amounts of SUMO conjugates associated with environmental stresses such as high and low temperature, NaCl and abscisic acid (ABA) in rice plants. The expression of OsSIZ1 and OsSIZ2 in siz1-2 Arabidopsis plants partially complemented the morphological mutant phenotype and enhanced levels of SUMO conjugates under heat shock conditions. In addition, ABA-hypersensitivity of siz1-2 seed germination was partially suppressed by OsSIZ1 and OsSIZ2. The results suggest that rice SIZ1 and SIZ2 are able to functionally complement Arabidopsis SIZ1 in the SUMO conjugation pathway. Their effects on the Arabidopsis mutant suggest a function for these genes related to stress responses and stress adaptation.
20561307	To investigate the contextual risk factors for the regional distribution of Japanese encephalitis (JE) in the People's Republic of China to enhance the prevention and control of JE. A multilevel Poisson regression model was used to analyse the association between the epidemic of JE and its contextual risk factors with an emphasis on the proportion of rice-planting area, the extent of pig rearing and the proportion of rural population. The highest risk of JE was observed in the southwestern and the central areas of P.R. China, characterized by high proportions of rice-planting area, rural population and extent of pig rearing. These contextual determinants seem to govern the risk of JE. In P.R. China, an effective surveillance system should be established in the high-risk regions of JE; immunization coverage for the prevention of JE should be expanded in rural areas, and mosquito-control efforts should be made to enhance the prevention and control of JE.
20561748	In order to identify spatial relationship of heavy metals in soil-rice system at a regional scale, 96 pairs of rice and soil samples were collected from Wenling in Zhejiang province, China, which is one of the well-known electronic and electric waste recycling centers. The results indicated some studied areas had potential contaminations by heavy metals, especially by Cd. The spatial distribution of Cd, Cu, Pb and Zn illustrated that the highest concentrations were located in the northwest areas and the accumulation of these metals may be due to the industrialization, agricultural chemicals and other human activities. In contrast, the concentration of Ni decreased from east to west and the mean concentration was below the background value, indicating the distribution of Ni may be naturally controlled. Enrichment index (EI) was used to describe the availability of soil heavy metals to rice. The spatial distribution of EIs for Cd, Ni and Zn exhibited a west-east structure, which was similar with the spatial structures of pH, OM, sand and clay. Cross-correlograms further quantitatively illustrated the EIs were significantly correlated with most soil properties, among which; soil pH and OM had the strongest correlations with EIs. However, EI of Cu showed relative weak correlations with soil properties, especially soil pH and OM had no correlations with EI of Cu, indicating the availability of Cu may be influenced by other factors.
20563285	The aim of this study was to determine the changes of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) in faeces of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients compared to healthy subjects. SCFAs such as pyruvic, lactic, formic, acetic, propionic, isobutyric and butyric acids were analyzed by using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). This study showed that the level of acetic, 162.0 micromol/g wet faeces, butyric, 86.9 micromol/g wet faeces, and propionic acids, 65.6 micromol/g wet faeces, decreased remarkably in IBD faecal samples when compared with that of healthy individuals, 209.7, 176.0, and 93.3 micromol/g wet faeces respectively. On the contrary, lactic and pyruvic acids showed higher levels in faecal samples of IBD than in healthy subjects. In the context of butyric acid level, this study also found that the molar ratio of butyric acid was higher than propionic acid in both faecal samples. This might be due to the high intake of starch from rice among Malaysian population. It was concluded that the level of SCFAs differ remarkably between faecal samples in healthy subjects and that in IBD patients providing evidence that SCFAs more likely play an important role in the pathogenesis of IBD.
20563548	5' untranslated regions (UTRs) are important sequence elements that modulate the expression of genes. Using the β-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter gene driven by the GluC promoter for the rice-seed storage-protein glutelin, we evaluated the potential of the 5'-UTRs of six seed storage-protein genes in enhancing the expression levels of the foreign gene in stable transgenic rice lines. All of the 5'-UTRs significantly enhanced the expression level of the GluC promoter without altering its expression pattern. The 5'-UTRs of Glb-1 and GluA-1 increased the expression of GUS by about 3.36- and 3.11-fold, respectively. The two 5'-UTRs downstream of the Glb-1, OsAct2 and CMV35S promoters also increased GUS expression level in stable transgenic rice lines or in transient expression protoplasts. Therefore, the enhancements were independent of the promoter sequence. Real-time quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed that the increase in protein production was not accompanied by alteration in mRNA levels, which suggests that the enhancements were due to increasing the translational efficiencies of the mRNA. The 5'-UTRs of Glb-1 and GluA-1, when combined with strong promoters, might be ideal candidates for high production of recombinant proteins in rice seeds.
20563573	The effect of long-term fertilization on soil-denitrifying communities was determined by measuring the abundance and diversity of the nitrite reductase genes nirK and nirS. Soil samples were collected from plots of a long-term fertilization experiment started in 1990, located in Taoyuan (110°72″ E, 28°52″ N), China. The treatments were no fertilizer (NF), urea (UR), balanced mineral fertilizers (BM), and BM combined with rice straw (BMR). The abundance, diversity, and composition of the soil-denitrifying bacteria were determined by using real-time quantitative PCR, terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP), and cloning and sequencing of nirK and nirS genes. There was a pronounced difference in the community composition and diversity of nirK-containing denitrifiers responding to the long-term fertilization regimes; however, less variation was observed in communities of nirS-containing denitrifiers, indicating that denitrifiers possessing nirK were more sensitive to the fertilization practices than those with nirS. In contrast, fertilization regimes had similar effects on the copy numbers of nirK and nirS genes. The BMR treatment had the highest copy numbers of nirK and nirS, followed by the two mineral fertilization regimes (UR and BM), and the lowest was in the NF treatment. Of the measured soil parameters, the differences in the community composition of nirK and the abundance of nir denitrifiers were highly correlated with the soil carbon content. Therefore, long-term fertilization resulted in a strong impact on the community structure of nirK populations only, and total organic carbon was the dominant factor in relation to the variations of nir community sizes.
20563652	The plant hormone auxin transcriptionally activates Aux/IAA genes. Auxin plays an important role in regulating fruit growth and ripening of strawberry and Aux/IAA genes have been extensively studied in Arabidopsis, rice and tomato, but little information is available on strawberry fruit. In the present work, two full-length of early auxin-responsive Aux/IAA genes, termed FaAux/IAA1 and FaAux/IAA2 respectively, were isolated and characterized from strawberry fruit. Moreover, the expression profiles of two FaAux/IAA genes during fruit development, and the effect of naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) on their expressions of fruits at two different developmental stages were also investigated. The results showed that the levels of FaAux/IAA1 and FaAux/IAA2 transcripts were very high at early stage of fruit development, and decreased sharply at ripening stage (after white stage). In addition, NAA applied at the stage of large green and white fruit obviously increased the accumulations of FaAux/IAA1 and FaAux/IAA2 transcripts. These data suggested that the expressions of both FaAux/IAA1 and FaAux/IAA2 genes were likely to be involved in early fruit development, and the enhancement of FaAux/IAAs transcripts might be attributed at least or partially to auxin-induced fruit growth and delayed fruit ripening of strawberry.
20564418	The present study focused on the antioxidant activities of aged oat (Avena sativa L.) vinegar. The antioxidant activities of oat and vinegar have been proved by many previous research studies. It should be noted that oat vinegar, as a novel seasoning, has antioxidant activity. Oat vinegar showed stronger radical scavenging activities, reducing power, and inhibition of lipid peroxidation than rice vinegar. The concentrations of polyphenols and flavonoids in oat vinegar were higher than those in rice vinegar. Ethyl acetate extract of oat vinegar possessed the most varieties of phenolic acids and showed the strongest antioxidant activity compared with ethanol and water extracts. At suitable doses of oat vinegar, the malondialdehyde value was decreased, activities of superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase were promoted, and hepatic damage induced by (60)Co gamma-irradiation was ameliorated in aging mice. Oat vinegar manifested antioxidant activity which was stronger than that of rice vinegar in vitro and the same as that of vitamin E in vivo.
20564458	Aroma of fragrant rice greatly affects palatability as well as consumer acceptability. Loss of desirable volatile compounds such as 2-acetyl-1-pyrroline (2-AP) and increase in volatile lipid oxidation products in aged rice have been reported. The aim of this study was to monitor the changes in key volatile compounds of organic red fragrant rice cv. Hom Daeng during storage. Effects of packaging material, storage temperature and time were evaluated using solid phase microextraction/gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Thirteen key volatile compounds including ten lipid oxidation products were monitored. For samples vacuum packed in Nylon/LLDPE pouches at ambient temperature, significant increases in hexanal, 2-pentylfuran, 1-octanol and 4-vinyl guaiacol and significant decreases in 2-AP and geranyl acetone were found after the second month (P< or =0.05). Vacuum packing in OPP/Al/LLDPE pouches or storage at 15 degrees C better retarded the formation of volatile lipid oxidation products and greater retained desirable odorants, including 2-AP. However, accumulation of lipid oxidation products and 4-vinyl guaiacol was apparent after the sixth month under these storage conditions. A greater extent and higher rate of undesirable changes in volatile compounds were found in samples stored under Nylon/LLDPE/ambient temperature condition. Nevertheless, this condition is acceptable for the retail trade of organic rice in Thailand. Storage conditions using reduced temperature or better packaging materials may be more appropriate for exported rice or superior-grade fragrant rice to better maintain the desirable rice aroma.
20564571	We succeeded in constructing the Glu219Ala/Asp225Ala (i.e., E219A/D225A) serine racemase (SerR) by site-directed mutagenesis, and the effects of Mg(2+) on the catalytic efficiency and the structure were compared between the E219A/D225A-SerR and the wild-type protein. This is the first example of a serine racemase whose amino acid residues in the Mg(2+)-binding site were replaced with other amino acids by site-directed mutagenesis. Neither the serine racemase nor the dehydratase activities of the E219A/D225A-SerR were affected by the addition of Mg(2+), and Glu219 and Asp225 of the SerR are the essential amino acid residues for Mg(2+) to affect both kinds of enzyme activities. Therefore, Glu219 and Asp225 mediate the effects of Mg(2+) on the activity and are important for the SerR to form the Mg(2+)-binding site. Judging from the difference of the K(eq) values between the E219A/D225A-SerR and the SerR, Mg(2+) might affect the equilibrium states in the racemase reaction. The fluorescence quenching analysis of the E219A/D225A-SerR showed that Mg(2+) bound to Glu219 and Asp225 of the SerR probably causes a conformational change in the ternary structure of the SerR.
20565594	SUMMARY Germplasm of Brachypodium distachyon was inoculated with Magnaporthe grisea using either rice- (Guy11) or grass-adapted (FAG1.1.1, PA19w-06, PA31v-01) host-limited forms of the fungus, and interactions with varying degrees of susceptibility and resistance were identified. Ecotype ABR5 was resistant to each M. grisea strain whereas ABR1 was susceptible to all but P31vi-01. Mendelian segregation in ABR1 x ABR5 crosses suggested that a single dominant resistance gene conferred resistance to Guy11. Microscopic analyses revealed that the aetiology of Guy11 fungal development and disease progression in ABR1 closely resembled that of rice infections. In ABR5, Guy11 pathogenesis was first suppressed at 48 h post-inoculation, at the secondary hyphal formation stage and was coincident with cytoplasmic granulation. Resistance to strains PA31v-01 and FAG1.1.1 was associated with a localized cell death with little callose deposition. 3,3-Diaminobenzidine staining indicated the elicitation of cell death in B. distachyon was preceded by oxidative stress in the interacting epidermal cells and the underlying mesophyll cells. Northern blot hybridization using probes for barley genes (PR1, PR5 and PAL) indicated that each was more rapidly expressed in ABR5 challenged with Guy11 although the B. distachyon defence genes BD1 and BD8 were more quickly induced in ABR1. Such data show that B. distachyon is an appropriate host for functional genomic investigations into M. grisea pathology and plant responses.
20565595	SUMMARY Proteinase inhibitors (PIs) are established markers for wound- and especially jasmonate-mediated signalling in dicot species such as tomato and potato. Differential screening of a cDNA library constructed from RNA isolated from wounded leaves of the grass Brachypodium distachyon led to the identification of a proteinase inhibitor gene (Bdpin1). Bdpin1 exhibited the highest homology to the subtilisin/chymotrypsin-inhibiting subgroup of the pin1 class of plant PIs. Northern analyses indicated that Bdpin1 was induced within 6 h at the site of wounding and systemically, by 24 h, thereby providing evidence for long-distance signalling in grasses. Bdpin1 also proved to be more rapidly induced in susceptible than in resistant ecotypes of B. distachyon following challenge with the Rice blast pathogen, Magnaporthe grisea. Screening with chemical signals indicated that Bdpin1 could be induced with MeJA but not with the putative mimic of salicylic acid, benzothiadiazole. Genomic Southern hybridization was consistent with Bdpin1 existing at a single locus, which was isolated following screening of a genomic cosmid library. DNA upstream of the Bdpin1 coding sequence was characterized via fusion to a GUS reporter and was found to confer wound-responsive transcription in B. distachyon and other cereals following biolistic bombardment. Both wound- and TMV-activated Bdpin1-GUS activity was detected in transgenic tobacco. Given that B. distachyon represents an ancestral grass species, our data suggest that there is considerable conservation in defence-associated signalling between dicots and grasses.
20565626	SUMMARY The rapid global re-emergence of Fusarium head blight disease of wheat and barley in the last decade along with contamination of grains with mycotoxins attributable to the disease have spurred basic research on the fungal causal agent. As a result, Fusarium graminearum quickly has become one of the most intensively studied fungal plant pathogens. This review briefly summarizes current knowledge on the pathogenicity, population genetics, evolution and genomics of Fusarium graminearum. Based on the sexual state Gibberella zeae (Schwein.) Petch: Superkingdom Eukaryota; Kingdom Fungi; Phylum Ascomycota; Subphylum Pezizomycotina; Class Sordariomycetidae; Subclass Hypocreomycetidae; Order Hypocreales; Family Nectriaceae; Genus Gibberella. The pathogen is capable of causing head blight or 'scab' on wheat (Triticum), barley (Hordeum), rice (Oryza), oats (Avena) and Gibberella stalk and ear rot disease on maize (Zea). The fungus also may infect other plant species without causing disease symptoms. Other host genera cited for Gibberella zeae or F. graminearum sensu lato (see below) are Agropyron, Agrostis, Bromus, Calamagrostis, Cenchrus, Cortaderia, Cucumis, Echinochloa, Glycine, Hierochloe, Lolium, Lycopersicon, Medicago, Phleum, Poa, Schizachyrium, Secale, Setaria, Sorghum, Spartina and Trifolium. Disease symptoms and signs: For wheat, brown, dark purple to black necrotic lesions form on the exterior surface of the florets and glume (Fig. 1). Although these lesion symptoms sometimes are referred to as scab, they are not formally related to the hyperplasia and hypertrophic epidermal growth associated with other scab diseases such as apple scab. Peduncles immediately below the inflorescence may become discoloured brown/purple. With time, tissue of the inflorescence often becomes blighted, appearing bleached and tan, while the grain within atrophies. Awns often become deformed, twisted and curved downward. In barley, infections are not always readily apparent in the field. Infected spikelets may show a browning or water-soaked appearance. Infected barley kernels show a tan to dark brown discolouration that can be similar to that caused by other kernel blighting organisms. During prolonged wet periods, pink to salmon-orange spore masses of the fungus are often seen on infected spikelets, glumes and kernels in both wheat and barley. For maize ear rot, infection occurs by way of colonizing silk and thus symptoms first appear at the ear apex. White mycelium, turning pink to red with time, colonizes kernels and may progress basipetally, covering the entire ear. http://www.broad.mit.edu/annotation/fungi/fusarium/mips.gsf.de/genre/proj/fusarium/ http://www.cdl.umn.edu/scab/gz-consort.html http://www.scabusa.org/
20565634	SUMMARY A fast-neutron mutagenized population of rice seedlings was screened with Magnaporthe grisea, the causal agent of rice blast disease, to identify mutants with alterations in the defence response. Three mutant lines, ebr1, ebr2 and ebr3 (enhanced blast resistance) were identified that display enhanced resistance to M. grisea. ebr1 and ebr3 also confer enhanced resistance to the bacterial pathogen Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). ebr3 develops a lesion mimic (LM) phenotype upon inoculation with M. grisea, and the phenotype is also induced by a shift in environmental conditions. The fourth mutant line, ncr1 (necrosis in rice), has an LM phenotype under all conditions tested and lacks enhanced resistance to either M. grisea or Xoo. Complementation testing using the mutant lines ebr3 and ncr1 indicates that the ebr3 and ncr1 loci are nonallelic and recessive. ebr1 and ebr2 display no alterations in expression of the rice pathogenesis-related (PR) genes PBZ1 and PR1, compared to wild-type CO39. ebr3 has an elevated expression of PBZ1 and PR1 only in tissue displaying the LM phenotype. ncr1 strongly expresses PBZ1 in tissue displaying the LM phenotype, whereas PR1 expression in this tissue is similar to wild-type CO39.
20565683	SUMMARY Culture filtrates from 72 isolates of Pyricularia, grouped into 13 rDNA types, were analysed via HPLC. Of these isolates, 31 (r9 DNA type) from crabgrass (Digitaria sanguinalis), one (r9 DNA type) from pangolagrass (Digitaria smutsii) and six (r8 DNA type) from Digitaria horizontalis produced 20-280 microg pyrichalasin H per millilitre of culture. These same isolates were pathogenic on five Digitaria species. Interestingly, two isolates, KM-1 and Br 29, which were originally isolated from Digitaria plants, did not produce pyrichalasin H, nor caused blast lesion on Digitaria plants. Because these two isolates were identified as Digitaria pathogens by PCR analysis using Digitaria-specific primers, they are likely to be mutants lacking pyrichalasin H production. Isolates that belonged to the remaining 11 rDNA types did not produce pyrichalasin H and were avirulent to Digitaria plants. Therefore, the virulence of Pyricularia on Digitaria plants correlates with pyrichalasin H production. Pyrichalasin H was also present in spore germination fluid of a crabgrass isolate (IBDS 5-1-1), but not in that of isolates from rice, foxtail millet, finger millet, common millet and wheat. In addition, pyrichalasin H was detected in host leaves infected with IBDS 5-1-1, but not in leaves from other plants infected with compatible Pyricularia isolates. Pretreatment of leaf sheaths of crabgrass with 3 microg/mL pyrichalasin H led to the penetration and colonization by non-host isolates. Overall, these results indicate that production of pyrichalasin H is responsible for the genus-specific pathogenicity of Digitaria isolates.
20565830	With the availability of rice and sorghum genome sequences and ongoing efforts to sequence genomes of other cereal and energy crops, the grass family (Poaceae) has become a model system for comparative genomics and for better understanding gene and genome evolution that underlies phenotypic and ecological divergence of plants. While the genomic resources have accumulated rapidly for almost all major lineages of grasses, bamboo remains the only large subfamily of Poaceae with little genomic information available in databases, which seriously hampers our ability to take a full advantage of the wealth of grass genomic data for effective comparative studies. Here we report the cloning and sequencing of 10,608 putative full length cDNAs (FL-cDNAs) primarily from Moso bamboo, Phyllostachys heterocycla cv. pubescens, a large woody bamboo with the highest ecological and economic values of all bamboos. This represents the third largest FL-cDNA collection to date of all plant species, and provides the first insight into the gene and genome structures of bamboos. We developed a Moso bamboo genomic resource database that so far contained the sequences of 10,608 putative FL-cDNAs and nearly 38,000 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) generated in this study. Analysis of FL-cDNA sequences show that bamboo diverged from its close relatives such as rice, wheat, and barley through an adaptive radiation. A comparative analysis of the lignin biosynthesis pathway between bamboo and rice suggested that genes encoding caffeoyl-CoA O-methyltransferase may serve as targets for genetic manipulation of lignin content to reduce pollutants generated from bamboo pulping.
20565843	The Phospholipase D (PLD) family plays an important role in the regulation of cellular processes in plants, including abscisic acid signaling, programmed cell death, root hair patterning, root growth, freezing tolerance and other stress responses. PLD genes constitute an important gene family in higher plants. However, until now our knowledge concerning the PLD gene family members and their evolutionary relationship in woody plants such as Poplar and Grape has been limited. In this study, we have provided a genome-wide analysis of the PLD gene family in Poplar and Grape. Eighteen and eleven members of the PLD gene family were identified in Poplar and Grape respectively. Phylogenetic and gene structure analyses showed that the PLD gene family can be divided into 6 subgroups: alpha, beta/gamma, delta, epsilon, zeta, and phi, and that the 6 PLD subgroups originated from 4 original ancestors through a series of gene duplications. Interestingly, the majority of the PLD genes from both Poplar (76.5%, 13/17) and Grape (90.9%, 10/11) clustered closely together in the phylogenetic tree to the extent that their evolutionary relationship appears more tightly linked to each other, at least in terms of the PLD gene family, than it does to either Arabidopsis or rice. Five pairs of duplicated PLD genes were identified in Poplar, more than those in Grape, suggesting that frequent gene duplications occurred after these species diverged, resulting in a rapid expansion of the PLD gene family in Poplar. The majority of the gene duplications in Poplar were caused by segmental duplication and were distinct from those in Arabidopsis, rice and Grape. Additionally, the gene duplications in Poplar were estimated to have occurred from 11.31 to 13.76 million years ago, which are later than those that occurred in the other three plant species. Adaptive evolution analysis showed that positive selection contributed to the evolution of the PXPH- and SP-PLDs, whereas purifying selection has driven the evolution of C2-PLDs that contain a C2 domain in their N-terminal. Analyses have shown that the C2-PLDs generally contain 23 motifs, more than 17 motifs in PXPH-PLDs that contain PX and PH domains in N-terminal. Among these identified motifs, eight, (6, 8, 5, 4, 3, 14, 1 and 19) were shared by both the C2- and PXPH-PLD subfamilies, implying that they may be necessary for PLD function. Five of these shared motifs are located in the central region of the proteins, thus strongly suggesting that this region containing a HKD domain (named after three conserved H, K and D residues) plays a key role in the lipase activity of the PLDs. As a first step towards genome wide analyses of the PLD genes in woody plants, our results provide valuable information for increasing our understanding of the function and evolution of the PLD gene family in higher plants.
20566242	This study investigates the species of As and Pb (beudantite) residues present in the seriously contaminated agricultural rice soils of the Guandu Plain. Two pedons in the Guandu Plain agricultural soils, each pedon separated into five horizons (each of 20 cm) were collected for this study. Soil samples were packed into a column for leaching with simulated acid rains. Soil pH ranged from 5.1 to 7.1 with high base saturation. Soils can be classified as clay loam, mixed, thermic, Typic or Umbric Albaqualfs. The XRD analysis indicated the beudantite particles are present in clay fractions, showing high concentrations of As and Pb. This is because of 50-100 years ago irrigation water was introduced from Huang Gang Creek of hot springs containing high concentrations of As and Pb. Only low concentrations of As and Pb can be leached out with simulated acid rains (i.e., pHs 2 and 4), even through 40 pore volumes of leaching experiments. The sequential extraction experiments resulted in the high portions of As and Pb remaining in the amorphous, Fe and Al oxyhydroxides and residual fractions. Thus, the remediation of As and Pb in this agricultural rice paddy soils merits further study.
20566563	Interaction and cross-talk between microtubules and actin microfilaments are important for numerous processes during plant growth and development, including the control of cell elongation and tissue expansion, but little is known about the molecular components of this interaction. Plant kinesins with the calponin-homology domain (KCH) were recently identified and associated with a putative role in microtubule-microfilament cross-linking. The putative biological role of the rice KCH member OsKCH1 is addressed here using a combined approach with Tos17 kch1 knock-out mutants on the one hand, and a KCH1 overexpression line generated in tobacco BY-2 cells. It is shown that OsKCH1 is expressed in a development and tissue-specific manner in rice and antagonistic cell elongation and division phenotypes as a result of knock-down and overexpression are reported. Further, the dynamic repartitioning of OsKCH1 during the cell cycle is described and it is demonstrated that KCH overexpression delays nuclear positioning and mitosis in BY-2 cells. These findings are discussed with respect to a putative role of KCHs as linkers between actin filaments and microtubules during nuclear positioning.
20566579	Histone lysine methylation plays an important role in heterochromatin formation and reprogramming of gene expression. SET-domain-containing proteins are shown to have histone lysine methyltransferase activities. A large number of SET-domain genes are identified in plant genomes. The function of most SET-domain genes is not known. In this work, we studied the 12 rice (Oryza sativa) homologs of Su(var)3-9, the histone H3 lysine 9 (H3K9) methyltransferase identified in Drosophila. Several rice SUVHs (i.e. SDG714, SDG727, and SDG710) were found to have an antagonistic function to the histone H3K9 demethylase JMJ706, as down-regulation of these genes could partially complement the jmj706 phenotype and reduced histone H3K9 methylation. Down-regulation of a rice Su(var)3-9 homolog (SUVH), namely SDG728, decreased H3K9 methylation and altered seed morphology. Overexpression of the gene increased H3K9 methylation. SDG728 and other SUVH genes were found to be involved in the repression of retrotransposons such as Tos17 and a Ty1-copia element. Analysis of histone methylation suggested that SDG728-mediated H3K9 methylation may play an important role in retrotransposon repression.
20566680	High temperatures over 32-36 degrees C at anthesis induce spikelet sterility in rice. The use of a germplasm with an early-morning flowering (EMF) trait has been hypothesized as a way of avoiding this problem. In this study, the effect of the EMF trait on avoiding high temperature-induced sterility at anthesis by flowering at a cooler temperature in the early morning was evaluated. The EMF trait was introgressed from wild rice (Oryza officinalis) into the rice cultivar 'Koshihikari' (O. sativa). First, spikelets of the EMF line and Koshihikari were subjected to rising temperatures during the daytime in the greenhouse to test for differences in spikelet sterility. Secondly, spikelets of both plants were exposed to 26, 34 and 38 degrees C at anthesis and to 38 degrees C beginning at least 1 h after flowering, in the growth chambers at 70 % relative humidity, to test for differences in tolerance to high temperatures. Spikelets of the EMF line started and completed flowering a few hours earlier than Koshihikari. In a greenhouse experiment, spikelets of Koshihikari opened after the air temperature reached 35 degrees C, but those of the EMF line could open at cooler temperatures. Under these conditions, spikelet sterility significantly increased in Koshihikari, but did not in the EMF line. The number of sterile spikelets increased as their flowering time was delayed in Koshihikari. Furthermore, the chamber experiments revealed that 60 % of the spikelets from both lines were sterile when exposed to 38 degrees C at anthesis, indicating that tolerance of high temperature was similar in both genotypes. Reduced sterility in the EMF line subjected to rising temperatures at anthesis in the greenhouse was attributed to an earlier flowering time compared with Koshihikari. The EMF trait of wild rice is effective in mitigating anticipated yield loss due to global warming by escaping high-temperature stress at anthesis during the daytime.
20566706	The three most important agronomic traits of rice (Oryza sativa), yield, plant height, and flowering time, are controlled by many quantitative trait loci (QTLs). In this study, a newly identified QTL, DTH8 (QTL for days to heading on chromosome 8), was found to regulate these three traits in rice. Map-based cloning reveals that DTH8 encodes a putative HAP3 subunit of the CCAAT-box-binding transcription factor and the complementary experiment increased significantly days to heading, plant height, and number of grains per panicle in CSSL61 (a chromosome segment substitution line that carries the nonfunctional DTH8 allele) with the Asominori functional DTH8 allele under long-day conditions. DTH8 is expressed in most tissues and its protein is localized to the nucleus exclusively. The quantitative real-time PCR assay revealed that DTH8 could down-regulate the transcriptions of Ehd1 (for Early heading date1) and Hd3a (for Heading date3a; a rice ortholog of FLOWERING LOCUS T) under long-day conditions. Ehd1 and Hd3a can also be down-regulated by the photoperiodic flowering genes Ghd7 and Hd1 (a rice ortholog of CONSTANS). Meanwhile, the transcription of DTH8 has been proved to be independent of Ghd7 and Hd1, and the natural mutation of this gene caused weak photoperiod sensitivity and shorter plant height. Taken together, these data indicate that DTH8 probably plays an important role in the signal network of photoperiodic flowering as a novel suppressor as well as in the regulation of plant height and yield potential.
20567817	A metagenomic library containing ca. 3.06 x 10(8) bp insert DNA was constructed from a rice straw degrading enrichment culture. A xylanase gene, umxyn10A, was cloned by screening the library for xylanase activity. The encoded enzyme Umxyn10A showed 58% identity and 73% similarity with a xylanase from Thermobifida fusca YX. Sequence analyses showed that Umxyn10A contained a glycosyl hydrolase family 10 catalytic domain. The gene was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant enzyme was purified and characterized biochemically. Recombinant Umxyn10A was highly active toward xylan. However, the purified enzyme could slightly hydrolyze beta-1,3/4-glucan and beta-1,3/6-glucan. Umxyn10A displayed maximal activity toward oat spelt xylan at a high temperature (75 degrees C) and weak acidity (pH 6.5). The K(m) and V (max) of Umxyn10A toward oat spelt xylan were 3.2 mg ml(-1) and 0.22 mmol min(-1) mg(-1) and were 2.7 mg ml(-1) and 1.0 mmol min(-1) mg(-1) against birchwood xylan, respectively. Metal ions did not appear to be required for the catalytic activity of this enzyme. The enzyme Umxyn10A could efficiently hydrolyze birchwood xylan to release xylobiose as the major product and a negligible amount of xylose. The xylanase identified in this work may have potential application in producing xylobiose from xylan.
20568053	Unlike other plants, bamboo (Bambusoideae) flowering is an elusive physiological phenomena, because it is unpredictable, long-periodic, gregarious, and uncontrollable; also, bamboo plants usually die after flowering. The flowering mechanism in Arabidopsis thaliana, a eudicot model species, is well established, but it remains unknown in bamboo species. We found 4470 and 3878 expressed sequence tags in the flower bud and vegetative shoot cDNA libraries, respectively, of the bamboo species, Bambusa oldhamii. Different genes were found expressed in bamboo flower buds compared to vegetative shoots, based on the Munich Information Center for Protein Sequences functional categorization; flowering-related genes were also identified in this species. We also identified Arabidopsis flowering-specific homologs that are involved in its photoperiod in this bamboo species, along with autonomous, vernalization and gibberellin-dependent pathways, indicating that bamboos may have a similar mechanism to control floral transition. Some bamboo expressed sequence tags shared high similarity with those of rice, but others did not match any known sequences. Our data lead us to conclude that bamboo may have its own unique flowering genes. This information can help us understand bamboo flowering and provides useful experimental methods to study the mechanisms involved.
20568462	To develop a method for the determination of inorganic arsenic (As(i)) in rice and to provide the basis for revising the national standard method GB/T 5009.11 "Determination of Inorganic Arsenic in Food". To compare the extracting ability of trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) under different concentrations and the different time for extracting samples. To evaluate the pollution of rice sampling from different original production places. Inorganic arsenic of rice was extracted under heating at 80tC by trifluoroacetic acid. The supernatant was concentrated to dryness by centrifuging, and then dissolved in the solution for mobile phase by ultrasonication. Passed through RP cartridge and filter, the sample solutions were ready for analysis. The mobile phases were 1 mmol/L NH4H2PO4 solution and 20 mmol/L NH4H2PO4 solution. As were separated with an anion exchange column, Hamilton PRPX-100, and detected by liquid chromatography-atomic fluorescence spectrometry (LC-AFS). Extraction with 3% TFA (v/v) and heating for 2 h were desirable for the pre-treatment of samples. The results meet the reference value of As. This method is suitable for the analysis of inorganic arsenic in rice. The inorganic arsenic content of samples collected from original production places did not exceed the limit standard.
20568647	Differences in stored-product psocid progeny production as a function of commodity type, percentage of cracked kernels, and wheat class were examined using laboratory bioassays. Population growth of Liposcelis bostrychophila Badonnel, Liposcelis decolor (Pearman), Liposcelis paeta Pearman, and Liposcelis entomophila (Enderlein) (Psocoptera: Liposcelididae) was highest on sorghum Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench, followed by wheat, Triticum aestivum L., and rice, Oryza sativa L., whereas progeny production was negligible on wheat germ. In a second experiment that did not include L. entomophila, population growth was examined on wheat containing 0, 1, 5, 10, 20, 50, and 100% cracked kernels. Progeny production did not increase as cracked kernel content increased. Instead, progeny production peaked at 20% for L. bostrychophila adults and nymphs, at 10% for L. decolor, and at 50% for L. paeta adults; no further increases were noted beyond these levels of cracked wheat content. In a third experiment that did not include L. entomophila, progeny production was examined on eight classes of wheat: hard red winter, hard red spring, soft white winter, soft white spring, soft club, durum, soft red winter, and hard white. Overall, progeny production was higher on durum wheat than on the other classes. The results indicate that there are considerable variations in psocid population growth among the different commodities tested, and this information may be used to predict the degree to which stored commodities are susceptible to psocid infestation.
20569129	The white backed planthopper, Sogatella furcifera (Hemiptera: Delphacidae), is a serious pest of rice in Asia. In the present study, inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) markers were employed to investigate the genetic diversity and differentiation of 47 populations sampled from 14 prefectures of the Greater Mekong Subregion. A total of 14 selected primers yielded 121 bright and discernible bands, with an average of 8.6 bands per primer. According to the hierarchical analysis of molecular variance (AMOVA), the genetic variation among geographic regions (79.84%) was higher than that of among populations within region (20.16%), and the FST value was 0.72, indicating a high level of genetic differentiation. Neighbor-Joining cluster analysis of the 47 populations showed two major clusters, one consisting of mostly southwestern Yunnan Province and Myanmar populations; and the other one consisting of southeastern and central of Yunnan Province plus Vietnam and Laos populations. No significant positive correlation was observed between genetic and geographic distances by Mantel test (r = 0.2230, p = 0.8448), indicating the role of geographic isolation did not shape the genetic structure of the sampled S. furcifera populations. This paper provides useful data for understanding and speculating the migration of S. furcifera and reveals available information to develop sustainable strategies for manage this long-range migratory pest.
20569303	summary Infection of cultured rice cells with an incompatible strain of Pseudomonas avenae induces a hypersensitive reaction of the host, while compatible strain infection produces no such reaction. The induction of H(2)O(2) generation in cultured rice cells by the incompatible strain of P. avenae precedes cell death. To examine the distribution of H(2)O(2) generation sites, cultured rice cells were incubated following infection with a cerium solution. Detection of the reaction product, Ce(OH)(2)OOH, was performed using energy disperse X-ray microanalysis (EDX) fitted with a variable-pressure scanning electron microscope (VP-SEM). We determined that H(2)O(2) accumulation is a local response, appearing as a circular region on the cell surface of only 10% to 15% of the total infected cells. Observation of cross-sections localized cerium deposition to the plasma membranes of papillae, in the cell walls of a papilla and around the bacterium. Furthermore, immuno-gold electron microscopy using antibodies for beta-1,3-glucan suggested that callose synthesis also occurs at the generation site of H(2)O(2). Therefore, H(2)O(2) functions as an antibacterial agent, serving as a substrate for cell wall cross-linking. Our detection system employs an EDX system fitted with SEM; this procedure will be useful to examine the function and mechanism of oxidative bursts in plant-pathogen interactions.
20569324	Summary The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes one of the most destructive diseases of rice. Genetic studies of this important pathogen during the past decade have made it an excellent system for investigating fungal-plant interactions. Recently, the well coordinated efforts by the rice blast community have also made significant progresses in genomics studies of M. grisea. BAC contigs were assembled and integrated with the high density genetic map, and 12 674 BAC-ends were sequenced as genome survey sequences. Over ten BAC clones have been sequenced by the shot-gun approach. Preliminary analysis with one completely sequenced BAC clone indicated that M. grisea may have a gene density of 4.2 kb/gene and contain approximately 9000 genes. In addition, > 10 000 ESTs have been sequenced from several cDNA libraries representing different stages of fungal growth, differentiation and plant infection. Currently, there are ongoing projects to sequence additional ESTs, telomeres, and 6X coverage of the M. grisea genome. A large-scale functional genomics project on M. grisea and its interaction with rice is also underway. It is an exciting time for genomics studies in M. grisea, and the resources generated in these studies will certainly enhance our understanding of fungal pathogenicity.
20569325	Summary Barley yellow dwarf virus (BYDV), the most economically important virus of small grains, features highly specialised relationships with its aphid vectors, a plethora of novel translation mechanisms mediated by long-distance RNA interactions, and an ambiguous taxonomic status. The structural and movement proteins of BYDV that confer aphid transmission and phloem-limitation properties resemble those of the Luteoviridae, the family in which BYDV is classified. In contrast, many genes and cis-acting signals involved in replication and gene expression most closely resemble those of the Tombusviridae. BYDV is in genus Luteovirus, family Luteoviridae. BYDV includes at least two serotypes or viruses: BYDV-PAV and BYDV-MAV. The former BYDV-RPV is now Cereal yellow dwarf virus-RPV (CYDV-RPV). CYDV is in genus Polerovirus, family Luteoviridae. Genus Luteovirus shares many features with family Tombusviridae. Physical properties: approximately 25 nm icosahedral (T = 3) virions. One major (22 kDa) and one minor (50-55 kDa) coat protein. 5.6-5.8 kb positive sense RNA genome with no 5'-cap and no poly(A) tail. Most grasses. Most important in oats, barley and wheat. Also infects maize and rice. Yellowing and dwarfing in barley, stunting in wheat; reddening, yellowing and blasting in oats. Some isolates cause leaf notching and curling. Key attractions: Model for the study of circulative transmission of aphid-transmitted viruses. Plethora of unusual translation mechanisms. Evidence of recombination in recent evolutionary history creates taxonomic ambiguity. Economically important virus of wheat, barley and oats, worldwide. Useful websites/meetings: International symposium: 'Barley Yellow Dwarf Disease: Recent Advances and Future Strategies', CIMMYT, El Batan, Mexico, 1-5 September 2002, http://www.cimmyt.cgiar.org/Research/wheat/Conf_BYD_02/invitation.htm http://www.cimmyt.org/Research/wheat/BYDVNEWS/htm/BYDVNEWS.htm Aphid transmission animation: http://www.ppws.vt.edu/~sforza/tmv/bydv_aph.html.
20569326	Summary Bipolaris sorokiniana (teleomorph Cochliobolus sativus) is the causal agent of common root rot, leaf spot disease, seedling blight, head blight, and black point of wheat and barley. The fungus is one of the most serious foliar disease constraints for both crops in warmer growing areas and causes significant yield losses. High temperature and high relative humidity favour the outbreak of the disease, in particular in South Asia's intensive 'irrigated wheat-rice' production systems. In this article, we review the taxonomy and worldwide distribution, as well as strategies to counteract the disease as an emerging threat to cereal production systems. We also review the current understanding of the cytological and molecular aspects of the interaction of the fungus with its cereal hosts, which makes B. sorokiniana a model organism for studying plant defence responses to hemibiotrophic pathogens. The contrasting roles of cell death and H(2)O(2) generation in plant defence during biotrophic and necrotrophic fungal growth phases are discussed.
20569332	Summary Adopting the sequencing of expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of a sugarcane database derived from libraries induced and not induced by pathogens, we identified EST clusters homologous to genes corresponding to enzymes involved in the detoxification of reactive oxygen species. The predicted amino acids of these enzymes are superoxide dismutases (SODs), glutathione-S-transferase (GST), glutathione peroxidase (GPX), and catalases. Three MnSOD mitochondrial precursors and 10 CuZnSOD were identified in sugarcane: the MnSOD mitochondrial precursor is 96% similar to the maize MnSOD mitochondrial precursor and, of the 10 CuZnSOD identified, seven were 98% identical to maize cytosolic CuZnSOD4 and one was 67% identical to putative peroxisomal CuZnSOD from Arabidopsis. Three homologues to class Phi GST were 87-88% identical to GST III from maize. Five GPX homologues were identified: three were homologous to cytosolic GPX from barley, one was 88% identical to phospholipid hydroperoxide glutathione peroxidase (PHGPX) from rice, and the last was 71% identical to GPX from A. thaliana. Three enzymes similar to maize catalase were identified in sugarcane: two were similar to catalase isozyme 3 and catalase chain 3 from maize, which are mitochondrial, and one was similar to catalase isozyme 1 from maize, whose location is peroxisomal subcellular. All enzymes were induced in all sugarcane libraries (flower, seed, root, callus, leaves) and also in the pathogen-induced libraries, except for CuZnSOD whose cDNA was detected in none of the libraries induced by pathogens (Acetobacter diazotroficans and Herbaspirillum rubrisubalbicans). The expression of the enzymes SOD, GST, GPX, and catalases involved in the detoxification was examined using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in cDNA from leaves of sugarcane under biotic stress conditions, inoculated with Puccinia melanocephala, the causal agent of sugarcane rust disease.
20569344	Summary The functions of phenylpropanoid compounds in plant defence range from preformed or inducible physical and chemical barriers against infection to signal molecules involved in local and systemic signalling for defence gene induction. Defensive functions are not restricted to a particular class of phenylpropanoid compound, but are found in the simple hydroxycinnamic acids and monolignols through to the more complex flavonoids, isoflavonoids, and stilbenes. The enzymatic steps involved in the biosynthesis of the major classes of phenylpropanoid compounds are now well established, and many of the corresponding genes have been cloned. Less is understood about the regulatory genes that orchestrate rapid, coordinated induction of phenylpropanoid defences in response to microbial attack. Many of the biosynthetic pathway enzymes are encoded by gene families, but the specific functions of individual family members remain to be determined. The availability of the complete genome sequence of Arabidopsis thaliana, and the extensive expressed sequence tag (EST) resources in other species, such as rice, soybean, barrel medic, and tomato, allow, for the first time, a full appreciation of the comparative genetic complexity of the phenylpropanoid pathway across species. In addition, gene expression array analysis and metabolic profiling approaches make possible comparative parallel analyses of global changes at the genome and metabolome levels, facilitating an understanding of the relationships between changes in specific transcripts and subsequent alterations in metabolism in response to infection.
20569394	SUMMARY The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes one of the most destructive diseases of rice. To initiate the infection of host tissues, conidia elaborate germ tubes that differentiate specialized infection structures called appressoria. Microarrays composed of 3500 cDNAs of M. grisea were prepared for the identification of genes that are specifically up- or down-regulated during appressorium formation. Gene expression in ungerminated conidia, during appressorium formation, and during mycelial growth was investigated with a novel highly sensitive dendrimer based detection system. Transcripts of 85 different genes were found to be more abundant in ungerminated conidia and/or in conidia with developing appressoria than in vegetative mycelia. Nineteen of these showed higher expression in both ungerminated conidia and developing appressoria than in mycelia, suggesting that their expression remains elevated during the early stage of fungal infection. The expression of 18 genes was higher in ungerminated conidia than in developing appressoria, indicating their possible role in the germination process or maintaining dormancy. Transcripts of 47 genes were found to be more abundant in developing appressoria than in ungerminated conidia, suggesting that their expression is induced during appressorium formation. Several of these genes, including a chitin binding protein and infection structure specific protein MIF23, were previously shown to be preferentially expressed during appressorium formation. However, the expression of many of these genes has not been reported prior to this analysis. In contrast, transcripts of 38 different genes were found to be more abundant in mycelia than in developing appressoria. A Northern blot analysis of selected genes was consistent with the microarray results. Results from this study provide a powerful resource for furthering our understanding of gene expression during infection-related morphogenesis and for the functional analysis of M. grisea genes involved in fungal infection.
20570000	We used a validated mail and telephone questionnaire to investigate baseline data on feeding patterns and dietary intake in a random sample of 460 Swedish dogs. In 1999, purebred individuals 1-3 years old in the largest insurance database of Sweden completed the study. Most dogs were fed restricted amounts twice a day, and the feeding patterns seldom were changed after the age of 6 months. Typically, the main constituent of the meals was dry food [representing 69% of dry matter (DM)]. Four out of five dogs also got foods that (in descending order of the amount of energy provided) consisted of vegetable oil, meat, sour milk, bread, potatoes, pasta, lard/tallow, sausage, cheese, rice and fish. The heavier the dog (kg), the more dry dog food was consumed (g DM/d). The dry-food intakes (g DM/d) increased linearly with body weight (BW, in kg): intake=-15.3+8.33 BW (P=0.0001; r=0.998), a clear relationship that was not observed for other commercial foods. The non-commercial part of the diet had higher fat (13 and 8 g/megajoule, MJ, respectively; P=0.00001) and lower protein (12 and 16 g/MJ, respectively; P=0.00001) compared to the commercial part of the diet. Six out of ten dogs were given treats, and one-fourth was given vitamin/mineral supplements (most commonly daily). Most dogs consumed diets that were nutritionally balanced. No dogs in the study consumed diets that supplied lower amounts of protein than recommended by the NRC (2006). Only two individuals (<1%) were given total diets that were lower than the nutrient profiles in fat. Few dogs consumed total diets that were lower than recommended by the NRC (2006) in calcium, phosphorus, and vitamins A, D and E (2, 1, 3, 5, and 3% of the individuals, respectively). A few individuals consumed higher levels of vitamins A and D (<1 and 4%, respectively) than recommended. Diets that deviated from recommended levels were those consisting of only table foods with no supplements (too-low in vitamins and minerals) or commercial foods+no table foods supplied with extra vitamin and mineral supplements (too-high in vitamins and minerals).
20570296	Tuberonic acid (TA) and its glucoside (TAG) have been isolated from potato (Solanum tuberosum L.) leaflets and shown to exhibit tuber-inducing properties. These compounds were reported to be biosynthesized from jasmonic acid (JA) by hydroxylation and subsequent glycosylation, and to be contained in various plant species. Here we describe the in vivo hydrolytic activity of TAG in rice. In this study, the TA resulting from TAG was not converted into JA. Tuberonic acid glucoside (TAG)-hydrolyzing beta-glucosidase, designated OsTAGG1, was purified from rice by six purification steps with an approximately 4300-fold purification. The purified enzyme migrated as a single band on native PAGE, but as two bands with molecular masses of 42 and 26 kDa on SDS-PAGE. Results from N-terminal sequencing and peptide mass fingerprinting of both polypeptides suggested that both bands were derived from a single polypeptide, which is a member of the glycosyl hydrolase family 1. In the native enzyme, the K(m) and V(max) values of TAG were 31.7 microM and 0.25 microkatal/mg protein, OsTAGG1 preferentially hydrolyzed TAG and methyl TAG. Here we report that OsTAGG1 is a specific beta-glucosidase hydrolyzing TAG, which releases the physiologically active TA.
2057030
20570502	Development and validation of a mammalian cell-based biosensor for application in food defense and food safety was investigated. Three prototypes of the biosensor capable of handling different sample types were developed and tested with food and beverages. The sensing element is a B lymphocyte Ped-2E9 cell-line, encapsulated in collagen matrix in 3D scaffold. The uniqueness of this biosensor is that it detects analyte interaction with mammalian cells and is able to distinguish pathogenic from non-pathogenic and active from inactive toxins, rendering accurate estimation of the risk associated with the agents. This sensor gave positive signal for a broad range of bacterial pathogens; Listeria monocytogenes, enterotoxigenic Bacillus, Vibrio, Micrococcus and Serratia, and toxins; α-hemolysin from Staphylococcus aureus, phospholipase C from Clostridium perfringens, cytolysin from sea anemone Stoichactis helianthus, listeriolysin O from L. monocytogenes, and enterotoxin from Bacillus. Detection limit for toxins was 10-40 ng in 2 h while for a model bacterial pathogen, L. monocytogenes, 10(3)-10(4) CFU/ml in 4-6 h, even in the presence of a mixture of higher concentrations of non-pathogenic species of the same genera or common background microflora. With inoculated food and beverage, the sensor detected L. monocytogenes and Bacillus cereus at a low initial concentration of 10(2)-10(4) CFU/g from ready-to-eat meat and rice, and only active toxins at nanogram quantities from rice, milk and water samples. Though all the three prototypes performed well with beverages, Devices II & III are most suitable for testing particulate foods. These data present promising evidence for possible application of this biosensor for rapid detection of multiple pathogens or toxins for food defense and food safety application.
20570652	Eukaryotic translation initiation factor 6 (eIF6) is an essential component of ribosome biogenesis. In our present study, we characterize plant eIF6 genes for the first time. Although a single gene encodes eIF6 in yeast and animals, two genes were found to encode proteins homologous to animal and yeast eIF6 in Arabidopsis and rice, denoted At-eIF6;1 and At-eIF6;2, and Os-eIF6;1 and Os-eIF6;2, respectively. Analysis of the yeast eif6 (tif6) mutant suggested that plant eIF6, at least in the case of At-eIF6;1, can complement the essential function of eIF6 in yeast. Evidence for the essential role of eIF6 in plants was also provided by the embryonic-lethal phenotype of the at-eif6;1 mutant. In contrast, At-eIF6;2 appears not to be essential due to its very low expression level and the normal growth phenotype of the eif6;2 mutants. Consistent with the putative role of plant eIF6 in ribosome biogenesis, At-eIF6;1 is predominately expressed in tissues where cell division actively proceeds under the control of intronic cis-regulatory elements. On the other hand, both Os-eIF6;1 and Os-eIF6;2 are probably active genes because they are expressed at significant expression levels. Interestingly, the supply of ammonium nitrate as a plant nutrient was found to induce specifically the expression of Os-eIF6;2. Our present findings indicate that the eIF6 genes have differently evolved in plant and animal kingdoms and also in distinct plant species.
20572057	The bacterial flora of two Japanese traditional fermented fish products, aji-narezushi (salted and long-fermented horse mackerel (Trachurus japonicas) with rice) and iwashi-nukazuke (salted and long-fermented sardine (Sardinops melanostica) with rice bran), was analysed using non-culture-based polymerase chain reaction (PCR) denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and culture-based PCR single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) methods. Viable plate counts in aji-narezushi and iwashi-nukazuke were about 6.3-6.6 and 5.7-6.9 log colony-forming units g(-1) respectively. In the PCR-DGGE analysis, Lactobacillus acidipiscis was detected as the predominant bacterium in two of three aji-narezushi samples, while Lactobacillus versmoldensis was predominant in the third sample. By the PCR-SSCP method, Lb. acidipiscis and Lactobacillus plantarum were isolated as the predominant bacteria, while Lb. versmoldensis was not detected. The predominant bacterium in two of three iwashi-nukazuke samples was Tetragenococcus muriaticus, while Tetragenococcus halophilus was predominant in the third sample. The results suggest that the detection of some predominant lactic acid bacteria species in fermented fish by cultivation methods is difficult.
20572788	A Laccotrephes japonensis (Nepidae: Heteroptera) population was studied based upon mark and recapture censuses in order to elucidate the seasonal pattern of habitat utilization in a rice paddy system including an irrigation pond between April and October, in 2006 and 2007. The seasonal pattern of nymphs and adults did not differ markedly between the rice fields and the pond. Survival rates of L. japonensis of all stages did not differ between the rice fields and the pond in 2006, but were lower in 2007 in both habitats. In 2007, however, the survival rate of L. japonensis nymphs in the pond was higher than in the rice fields. In rice fields, 36.3% of the overwintering adults were recaptured the following year. On the other hand, the recapture rate after overwintering in the pond was only 6.4%. Migration from the pond to the paddies and vice versa was observed. In summary, the rice fields and the pond may reinforce each other as reproductive and overwintering sites of L. japonensis, especially during unfavorable years.
20573024	summary A system-wide approach was adopted to further elucidate mechanisms regulating disease outcome between rice and the fungal pathogen Magnaporthe grisea. First, a cDNA library was constructed from M. grisea infected rice at 48 h post-inoculation. The 5' end-sequencing of 619 randomly selected clones revealed 359 expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that had not previously been described. A total of 124 from 260 ESTs with high and moderate similarity scores, based on BlastX, were organized into categories according to their putative function. The largest category of sequences (21%) contained stress or defence response genes. Eleven per cent of identified ESTs were redundant. In a second approach, differential hybridization analysis of the cDNA library using high-density filters resulted in the identification of novel genes and previously characterized M. grisea genes, including several that had previously been implicated in the infection process. A survey of up-regulated cDNA clones revealed clone 29003, which corresponded to the rice peroxidase POX22.3. This gene is known to be expressed in rice upon infection with Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae, the bacterial blight pathogen. Importantly, this approach demonstrates the utility of gene discovery, through ESTs, for revealing novel genes in addition to those previously characterized as being potentially implicated in host-pathogen interactions.
20573242	Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), the causative agent of Japanese encephalitis (JE), is endemic to the Republic of Korea (ROK) where unvaccinated United States (U.S.) military Service members, civilians and family members are stationed. The primary vector of the JEV in the ROK is Culex tritaeniorhynchus. The ecological relationship between Culex spp. and rice fields has been studied extensively; rice fields have been shown to increase the prevalence of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus. This research was conducted to determine if the quantification of rice field land cover surrounding U.S. military installations in the ROK should be used as a parameter in a larger risk model that predicts the abundance of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus populations. Mosquito data from the U.S. Forces Korea (USFK) mosquito surveillance program were used in this project. The average number of female Cx. tritaeniorhynchus collected per trap night for the months of August and September, 2002-2008, was calculated. Rice fields were manually digitized inside 1.5 km buffer zones surrounding U.S. military installations on high-resolution satellite images, and the proportion of rice fields was calculated for each buffer zone. Mosquito data collected from seventeen sample sites were analyzed for an association with the proportion of rice field land cover. Results demonstrated that the linear relationship between the proportion of rice fields and mosquito abundance was statistically significant (R2 = 0.62, r = .79, F = 22.72, p < 0.001). The analysis presented shows a statistically significant linear relationship between the two parameters, proportion of rice field land cover and log10 of the average number of Cx. tritaeniorhynchus collected per trap night. The findings confirm that agricultural land cover should be included in future studies to develop JE risk prediction models for non-indigenous personnel living at military installations in the ROK.
20574459	Little is known about population dynamics and contribution of specific taxa to methane oxidation in flooded rice paddies. In this article we investigate the succession of methanotrophs in oxygen-methane counter-gradients. We used a gradient microcosm system that simulates oxic-anoxic interfaces of a water-saturated paddy soils, and measured pmoA-based (gene encoding particulate methane monooxygenase) terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) profiles at both the transcription (mRNA) and the population (DNA) levels. The DNA T-RFLP profiles indicated that the methanotrophic community present clearly differed from the active methanotrophic community. We observed a succession of the methanotrophic community over time without any direct effect of pore water chemistry on the community structure. Both the total population and the active subpopulation changed with time, whereas methane oxidation rates remained nearly constant. Hence, we suggest that a diverse microbial seed bank of methanotrophs is important in maintaining the function in a dynamic ecosystem.
20574826	We compared the microbial community composition in soils from the Brazilian Amazon with two contrasting histories; anthrosols and their adjacent non-anthrosol soils of the same mineralogy. The anthrosols, also known as the Amazonian Dark Earths or terra preta, were managed by the indigenous pre-Colombian Indians between 500 and 8,700 years before present and are characterized by unusually high cation exchange capacity, phosphorus (P), and calcium (Ca) contents, and soil carbon pools that contain a high proportion of incompletely combusted biomass as biochar or black carbon (BC). We sampled paired anthrosol and unmodified soils from four locations in the Manaus, Brazil, region that differed in their current land use and soil type. Community DNA was extracted from sampled soils and characterized by use of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. DNA bands of interest from Bacteria and Archaea DGGE gels were cloned and sequenced. In cluster analyses of the DNA fingerprints, microbial communities from the anthrosols grouped together regardless of current land use or soil type and were distinct from those in their respective, paired adjacent soils. For the Archaea, the anthrosol communities diverged from the adjacent soils by over 90%. A greater overall richness was observed for Bacteria sequences as compared with those of the Archaea. Most of the sequences obtained were novel and matched those in databases at less than 98% similarity. Several sequences obtained only from the anthrosols grouped at 93% similarity with the Verrucomicrobia, a genus commonly found in rice paddies in the tropics. Sequences closely related to Proteobacteria and Cyanobacteria sp. were recovered only from adjacent soil samples. Sequences related to Pseudomonas, Acidobacteria, and Flexibacter sp. were recovered from both anthrosols and adjacent soils. The strong similarities among the microbial communities present in the anthrosols for both the Bacteria and Archaea suggests that the microbial community composition in these soils is controlled more strongly by their historical soil management than by soil type or current land use. The anthrosols had consistently higher concentrations of incompletely combusted organic black carbon material (BC), higher soil pH, and higher concentrations of P and Ca compared to their respective adjacent soils. Such characteristics may help to explain the longevity and distinctiveness of the anthrosols in the Amazonian landscape and guide us in recreating soils with sustained high fertility in otherwise nutrient-poor soils in modern times.
20576097	Cytoplasmic male sterility (CMS) has often been associated with abnormal mitochondrial open reading frames. The mitochondrial gene orfH79 is a candidate gene for causing the CMS trait in CMS-Honglian (CMS-HL) rice. However, whether the orfH79 expression can actually induce CMS in rice remains unclear. Western blot analysis revealed that the ORFH79 protein is mainly present in mitochondria of CMS-HL rice and is absent in the fertile line. To investigate the function of ORFH79 protein in mitochondria, this gene was fused to a mitochondrial transit peptide sequence and used to transform wild type rice, where its expression induced the gametophytic male sterile phenotype. In addition, excessive accumulation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in the microspore, a reduced ATP/ADP ratio, decreased mitochondrial membrane potential and a lower respiration rate in the transgenic plants were found to be similar to those in CMS-HL rice. Moreover, retarded growth of primary and lateral roots accompanied by abnormal accumulation of ROS in the root tip was observed in both transgenic rice and CMS-HL rice (YTA). These results suggest that the expression of orfH79 in mitochondria impairs mitochondrial function, which affects the development of both male gametophytes and the roots of CMS-HL rice.
20576152	Breeding programs are usually reluctant to evaluate and use germplasm accessions other than the elite materials belonging to their advanced populations. The concept of core collections has been proposed to facilitate the access of potential users to samples of small sizes, representative of the genetic variability contained within the gene pool of a specific crop. The eventual large size of a core collection perpetuates the problem it was originally proposed to solve. The present study suggests that, in addition to the classic core collection concept, thematic core collections should be also developed for a specific crop, composed of a limited number of accessions, with a manageable size. The thematic core collection obtained meets the minimum requirements for a core sample - maintenance of at least 80% of the allelic richness of the thematic collection, with, approximately, 15% of its size. The method was compared with other methodologies based on the M strategy, and also with a core collection generated by random sampling. Higher proportions of retained alleles (in a core collection of equal size) or similar proportions of retained alleles (in a core collection of smaller size) were detected in the two methods based on the M strategy compared to the proposed methodology. Core sub-collections constructed by different methods were compared regarding the increase or maintenance of phenotypic diversity. No change on phenotypic diversity was detected by measuring the trait "Weight of 100 Seeds", for the tested sampling methods. Effects on linkage disequilibrium between unlinked microsatellite loci, due to sampling, are discussed. Building of a thematic core collection was here defined by prior selection of accessions which are diverse for the trait of interest, and then by pairwise genetic distances, estimated by DNA polymorphism analysis at molecular marker loci. The resulting thematic core collection potentially reflects the maximum allele richness with the smallest sample size from a larger thematic collection. As an example, we used the development of a thematic core collection for drought tolerance in rice. It is expected that such thematic collections increase the use of germplasm by breeding programs and facilitate the study of the traits under consideration. The definition of a core collection to study drought resistance is a valuable contribution towards the understanding of the genetic control and the physiological mechanisms involved in water use efficiency in plants.
20576285	The transfer of arsenic to rice grains is a human health issue of growing relevance in regions of southern Asia where shallow groundwater used for irrigation of paddy fields is elevated in As. In the present study, As and Fe concentrations in soil water and in the roots of rice plants, primarily the Fe plaque surrounding the roots, were monitored during the 4-month growing season at two sites irrigated with groundwater containing approximately 130microgl(-1) As and two control sites irrigated with water containing <15microgl(-1) As. At both sites irrigated with contaminated water, As concentrations in soil water increased from <10microgl(-1) to >1000microgl(-1) during the first five weeks of the growth season and then gradually declined to <10microgl(-1) during the last five weeks. At the two control sites, concentrations of As in soil water never exceeded 40microgl(-1). At both contaminated sites, the As content of roots and Fe plaque rose to 1000-1500mgkg(-1) towards the middle of the growth season. It then declined to approximately 300mgkg(-1) towards the end, a level still well above As concentration of approximately 100mgkg(-1) in roots and plaque measured throughout the growing season at the two control sites. These time series, combined with simple mass balance considerations, demonstrate that the formation of Fe plaque on the roots of rice plants by micro-aeration significantly limits the uptake of As by rice plants grown in paddy fields. Large variations in the As and Fe content of plant stems at two of the sites irrigated with contaminated water and one of the control sites were also recorded. The origin of these variations, particularly during the last month of the growth season, needs to be better understood because they are likely to influence the uptake of As in rice grains.
20576316	Abscisic acid (ABA) is an important phytohormone involved in abiotic stress tolerance in plants. The group A bZIP transcription factors play important roles in the ABA signaling pathway in Arabidopsis but little is known about their functions in rice. In our current study, we have isolated and characterized a group A bZIP transcription factor in rice, OsABF2 (Oryza sativa ABA-responsive element binding factor 2). It was found to be expressed in various tissues in rice and induced by different types of abiotic stress treatments such as drought, salinity, cold, oxidative stress, and ABA. Subcellular localization analysis in maize protoplasts using a GFP fusion vector indicated that OsABF2 is a nuclear protein. In yeast experiments, OsABF2 was shown to bind to ABA-responsive elements (ABREs) and its N-terminal region found to be necessary to transactivate a downstream reporter gene. A homozygous T-DNA insertional mutant of OsABF2 is more sensitive to salinity, drought, and oxidative stress compared with wild type plants. In addition, this Osabf2 mutant showed a significantly decreased sensitivity to high levels of ABA at germination and post-germination. Collectively, our present results indicate that OsABF2 functions as a transcriptional regulator that modulates the expression of abiotic stress-responsive genes through an ABA-dependent pathway.
20576568	Production of recombinant Oryza sativa non-symbiotic hemoglobin 1 (OsHb1) by Escherichia coli was maximized in shake-flask cultures in media containing tryptone, yeast extract, sodium chloride and byproduct glycerol from biodiesel production. Response surface methodology (RSM) and artificial neural networks (ANNs), followed by multiple response optimization through a desirability function were applied to evaluate the amount of OsHb1 produced. The results obtained by the application of ANNs were more reliable since better statistical parameters were obtained. The optimal conditions were (gL(-1)), tryptone, 42.69; yeast extract, 20.11; sodium chloride, 17.77; and byproduct glycerol, 0.33. A maximum recombinant protein concentration of 3.50gL(-1) and a minimum biomass concentration of 18.48gL(-1) were obtained under these conditions. Although the concentrations of tryptone, yeast extract and sodium chloride are relatively high, the increase in the yield with respect to biomass formed (Y(P/X)) overcomes this disadvantage.
20578455	Snail and fish intermediate hosts were collected from rice fields in 3 districts; Mueang, Mae Taeng and Mae Rim of Chiang Mai Province during April-July 2008. For identification of larval trematode infection, standard (cracked for snail and enzymatically digested for fish) and molecular methods were performed. The results showed that three types of cercariae were found, pleurolophocercus, cotylocercous, and echinostome among 4 species of snail with a prevalence of 29, 23 and 3% respectively. Melanoides tuberculata snail was the most susceptible host for cercariae infection. Four species of metacercariae, Haplorchis taichui, Stellantchasmus falcatus, Haplorchoides sp and Centrocestus caninus, were found with a prevalence of 67, 25, 60 and 20%, respectively. The Siamese mud carp (Henicorhynchus siamensis) was the most susceptible fish host for H. taichui, and half- beaked fish (Dermogenys pusillus) for S. falcatus metacercariae infection, whereas Haplorchoides sp and C. caninus were concomitantly found in Puntius brevis. HAT-RAPD profile confirmed that pleurolophocercus cercariae found in Melanoides tuberculata from Mae Taeng District belonged to H. taichui and in Tarebia granifera from Mueang District were S. falcatus.
20578703	Food can be an important source of inorganic As for human intake. Recent studies have focused on rice, while little information is available on As accumulation, distribution, and speciation in wheat, which is the second most important food grain cereal. Grain samples of 26 wheat cultivars grown in five field trials located in productive farming regions in Europe were therefore analyzed for As concentration and speciation. Grain from four trials contained low concentrations of total As (7.7 +/- 5.4 microg kg(-1)), reflecting low levels of As in the soils (1.3-11 mg kg(-1)). In contrast, at one of the trial sites the As level in the soil was greater (29 mg kg(-1)), and much higher As concentrations (69 +/- 17 microg kg(-1)) were present in the wheat grain. Milling of wheat grain into bran and white flour fraction showed the concentration of As in the bran, with a 3.8-4.7-fold higher As concentration than in the white flour. Two methods (a phosphate buffer solution and 1% HNO(3)) were used to extract As species from wholemeal, bran, and white flour of wheat, with average extraction efficiencies of 65% and 88%, respectively. Only inorganic As was found in the extracts, with no methylated As being detected. The contribution of wheat to human intake of inorganic As is small for wheat crops grown in uncontaminated soils but becomes significant for those grown in soils with elevated As. In the latter case, milling can be used to reduce the As concentration in the white flour.
20578956	The planthopper Peregrinus maidis (Ashmead) (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) is an important vector of maize viruses in tropical and subtropical areas. Planthoppers are biologically controlled with several species of entomopathogenic fungi that have been isolated from these insect pests of rice in Asia. Beauveria bassiana (Balsamo-Crivelli) Vuillemin and Metarhizium anisopliae (Metschnikoff) Sorokin (Hypocreales: Clavicipitaceae) appear to be the most useful against planthoppers because of their ease of mass production, storage, virulence, and application. In the present study, adults of P. maidis infected with B. bassiana and M. anisopliae were observed under light and scanning electron microscopy to characterize morphologically the process of infection and the development of these fungi, prior to and after the death of the host. The hydrophobic conidia of both fungal species were able to attach to all body regions, with a preference for surfaces containing hairs. Few germinated conidia were observed on the insect's body surface at 24, 48, and 72 hr post-inoculation. On the cuticular surface of P. maidis treated with B. bassiana and M. anisopliae, bacillus-like bacteria were observed. These microorganisms could be interacting with fungal conidia, playing a role of antibiosis that will not allow the fungal pathogens to germinate and penetrate. In the colonization events observed in this study, the formation and multiplication of hyphal bodies by both fungal species inside the host's body was noted. The host's whole body was invaded by hyphae between five and six days post-inoculation, and body fat was the most affected tissue.
20579103	Among the tailed phages, the myoviruses, those with contractile tails, are widespread and diverse. An important component of the Myoviridae family is the genus 'T4-like viruses'. The present study was aimed at elucidating the molecular diversity of T4-type bacteriophages in Lake Baikal by partial sequencing of g23 genes of T4-type bacteriophages. Our study revealed that the g23 gene sequences investigated were highly diverse and different from those of T4-like bacteriophages and from g23 clones obtained from different environments. Phylogenetic analysis showed that all g23 fragments from Lake Baikal, except for the one sequence, were more closely related to marine T4 cyanophages and to previously described subgroups of uncultured T4 phages from marine and rice field environments.
20580124	Rice is the staple food of half of the world's population; however, it is a poor source of essential micronutrients such as Fe and Zn. Since flag leaves are one of the sources of remobilized metals for developing seeds, the identification of the molecular players that might contribute to the process of metal transport from flag leaves to the seeds may be useful for biofortification purposes. We analyzed the expression of 25 metal-related genes from rice, including rice homologues for YSLs, NRAMPs, ZIPs, IRT1, VIT1 (coding for known or potential metal transporters), as well as NASs, FROs and NAC5 (involved in metal homeostasis) in flag leaves of eight rice cultivars (showing contrasting levels of seed Fe and Zn) during panicle emergence (R3) and grain filling stage (R5). The expression level of nine of these genes (OsYSL6, OsYSL8, OsYSL14, OsNRAMP1, OsNRAMP7, OsNRAMP8, OsNAS1, OsFRO1 and OsNAC5) in flag leaves exhibited significant correlations with Fe and/or Zn concentrations in the seeds. In this way, our study has provided a short list of putative target genes to manipulate Fe and Zn concentrations in rice grains.
20581256	Boron (B) toxicity is a significant limitation to cereal crop production in a number of regions worldwide. Here we describe the cloning of a gene from barley (Hordeum vulgare), underlying the chromosome 6H B toxicity tolerance quantitative trait locus. It is the second B toxicity tolerance gene identified in barley. Previously, we identified the gene Bot1 that functions as an efflux transporter in B toxicity-tolerant barley to move B out of the plant. The gene identified in this work encodes HvNIP2;1, an aquaporin from the nodulin-26-like intrinsic protein (NIP) subfamily that was recently described as a silicon influx transporter in barley and rice (Oryza sativa). Here we show that a rice mutant for this gene also shows reduced B accumulation in leaf blades compared to wild type and that the mutant protein alters growth of yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) under high B. HvNIP2;1 facilitates significant transport of B when expressed in Xenopus oocytes compared to controls and to another NIP (NOD26), and also in yeast plasma membranes that appear to have relatively high B permeability. We propose that tolerance to high soil B is mediated by reduced expression of HvNIP2;1 to limit B uptake, as well as by increased expression of Bot1 to remove B from roots and sensitive tissues. Together with Bot1, the multifunctional aquaporin HvNIP2;1 is an important determinant of B toxicity tolerance in barley.
20581296	Entamoeba histolytica is a deep-branching eukaryotic pathogen. Rhomboid proteases are intramembrane serine proteases, which cleave transmembrane proteins in, or in close proximity to, their transmembrane domain. We have previously shown that E. histolytica contains a single functional rhomboid protease (EhROM1) and has unique substrate specificity. EhROM1 is present on the trophozoite surface and relocalizes to internal vesicles during erythrophagocytosis and to the base of the cap during surface receptor capping. In order to further examine the biological function of EhROM1 we downregulated EhROM1 expression by >95% by utilizing the epigenetic silencing mechanism of the G3 parasite strain. Despite the observation that EhROM1 relocalized to the cap during surface receptor capping, EhROM1 knockdown [ROM(KD)] parasites had no gross changes in cap formation or complement resistance. However, ROM(KD) parasites demonstrated decreased host cell adhesion, a result recapitulated by treatment of wild-type parasites with DCI, a serine protease inhibitor with activity against rhomboid proteases. The reduced adhesion phenotype of ROM(KD) parasites was noted exclusively with healthy cells, and not with apoptotic cells. Additionally, ROM(KD) parasites had decreased phagocytic ability with reduced ingestion of healthy cells, apoptotic cells, and rice starch. Decreased phagocytic ability is thus independent of the reduced adhesion phenotype, since phagocytosis of apoptotic cells was reduced despite normal adhesion levels. The defect in host cell adhesion was not explained by altered expression or localization of the heavy subunit of the Gal/GalNAc surface lectin. These results suggest no significant role of EhROM1 in complement resistance but unexpected roles in parasite adhesion and phagocytosis.
20581307	To improve our understanding of the organization and evolution of the wheat (Triticum aestivum) genome, we sequenced and annotated 13-Mb contigs (18.2 Mb) originating from different regions of its largest chromosome, 3B (1 Gb), and produced a 2x chromosome survey by shotgun Illumina/Solexa sequencing. All regions carried genes irrespective of their chromosomal location. However, gene distribution was not random, with 75% of them clustered into small islands containing three genes on average. A twofold increase of gene density was observed toward the telomeres likely due to high tandem and interchromosomal duplication events. A total of 3222 transposable elements were identified, including 800 new families. Most of them are complete but showed a highly nested structure spread over distances as large as 200 kb. A succession of amplification waves involving different transposable element families led to contrasted sequence compositions between the proximal and distal regions. Finally, with an estimate of 50,000 genes per diploid genome, our data suggest that wheat may have a higher gene number than other cereals. Indeed, comparisons with rice (Oryza sativa) and Brachypodium revealed that a high number of additional noncollinear genes are interspersed within a highly conserved ancestral grass gene backbone, supporting the idea of an accelerated evolution in the Triticeae lineages.
20582626	Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) is the preferred technique for gene transfer into crops. A major disadvantage of the technology remains the complexity of the patent landscape that surrounds ATMT which restricts its use for commercial applications. An alternative system has been described (Broothaerts et al. in Nature 433:629-633, 2005) detailing the propensity of three rhizobia to transform the model crop Arabidopsis thaliana, the non-food crop Nicotiana tabacum and, at a very low frequency, the monocotyledonous crop Oryza sativa. In this report we describe for the first time the genetic transformation of Solanum tuberosum using the non-Agrobacterium species Sinorhizobium meliloti, Rhizobium sp. NGR234 and Mesorhizobium loti. This was achieved by combining an optimal bacterium and host co-cultivation period with a low antibiotic regime during the callus and shoot induction stages. Using this optimized protocol the transformation frequency (calculated as % of shoots equipped with root systems with the ability to grow in rooting media supplemented with 25 μg/ml hygromycin) of the rhizobia strains was calculated at 4.72, 5.85 and 1.86% for S. meliloti, R. sp. NGR234 and M. loti respectively, compared to 47.6% for the A. tumefaciens control. Stable transgene integration and expression was confirmed via southern hybridisation, quantitative PCR analysis and histochemical screening of both leaf and/or tuber tissue. In light of the rapid advances in potato genomics, combined with the sequencing of the potato genome, the ability of alternative bacteria species to genetically transform this major food crop will provide a novel resource to the Solanaceae community as it continues to develop potato as both a food and non-food crop.
20582640	A high cellobiohydrolase (CBH)-producing strain was isolated and identified as Penicillium purpurogenum KJS506 according to the morphology and comparison of internal transcribed spacer rDNA gene sequence. When rice straw and corn steep powder were used as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, a maximum CBH activity of 2.6 U mg-protein(-1), one of the highest among CBH-producing microorganisms, was obtained. The optimum temperature and pH for CBH production were 30 °C and 4.0, respectively. The increased production of CBH in P. purpurogenum culture at 30 °C was confirmed by two-dimensional electrophoresis followed by MS/MS sequencing of the partial peptide. The internal amino acid sequences of P. purpurogenum CBH showed a significant homology with hydrolases from glycoside hydrolase family 7. The extracellular CBH was purified to homogeneity by sequential chromatography of P. purpurogenum culture supernatants on a DEAE-sepharose column, a gel filtration column, and then on a Mono Q column with fast-protein liquid chromatography. The purified CBH was a monomeric protein with a molecular weight of 60 kDa and showed broad substrate specificity with maximum activity towards p-nitrophenyl β-D: -cellobiopyranoside. P. purpurogenum CBH showed t (1/2) value of 4 h at 60 °C and V (max) value of 11.9 μmol min(-1) mg-protein(-1) for p-nitrophenyl-D: -cellobiopyranoside. Although CBHs have been reported, the high specific activity distinguishes P. purpurogenum CBH.
20582739	The adsorption equilibrium time and effects of pH and concentration of (14)C-labeled paraquat (1,1(')-dimethyl-4,4(')-bipyridylium dichloride) in two types of Malaysian soil were investigated. The soils used in the study were clay loam and clay soils from rice fields. Equilibrium studies of paraquat in a soil and pesticide solution were conducted. Adsorption equilibrium time was achieved within 2 h for both soil types. The amount of (14)C-labeled paraquat adsorbed onto glass surfaces increased with increasing shaking time and remained constant after 10 h. It was found that paraquat adsorbed by the two soils was very similar: 51.73 (clay loam) and 51.59 μ g g(-1) (clay) at 1 μ g/ml. The adsorption of paraquat onto both types of soil was higher at high pH, and adsorption decreased with decreasing pH. At pH 11, the amounts of (14)C-labeled paraquat adsorbed onto the clay loam and clay soil samples were 4.08 and 4.05 μ g g(-1), respectively, whereas at pH 2, the amounts adsorbed were 3.72 and 3.57 μ g g(-1), respectively. Results also suggested that paraquat sorption by soil is concentration dependent.
20582781	The aim of this paper is to offer a method based on headspace gas chromatography-mass (HS-GC-MS) spectrometry technique in-house validated and use to estimate furan concentrations in jarred baby-food samples purchased from the Spanish market. The validation was performed according to ISO 17025 and European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) requirements and the results obtained (limit of detection (LOD) = 0.05 microg kg(-1); limit of quantification (LOQ) = 4 microg kg(-1), lowest validated level; relative standard deviation (RSD) = 3.1-10.5%; recoveries = 85.4-101.5%) confirm that this method is fit for the routine analysis of furan in jarred baby food control. Furan was analysed in 39 different baby-food samples and the mean levels varied between 64.6 microg kg(-1) (rice and chicken samples) and less than or equal to the LOQ (fruit-based samples). The mean concentrations found for the different matrices were 5.0, 37.8, 25.2, 33.8 and 30.5 microg kg(-1) for fruit, vegetables, meat/vegetables, fish/vegetables and dairy-containing baby foods, respectively. According to the statistical analyses, fruit-based baby-food samples had significantly lower concentrations of furan. Mean values for the other matrices were at least five times higher, and this is in accordance with the levels reported in other studies.
20582994	Laodelphax striatellus (Fallén) is a major pest of cultivated rice and is commonly controlled in China with the organophosphate insecticides. To develop a better resistance management strategy, a chlorpyrifos-resistant strain of L. striatellus was selected in the laboratory, and its cross-resistance to other insecticides and possible mechanisms of the chlorpyrifos resistance were investigated. After 25 generations of selection with chlorpyrifos, the selected strain of L. striatellus developed 188-fold resistance to chlorpyrifos in comparison with the susceptible strain, and showed 14- and 1.6-fold cross-resistance to dichlorvos and thiamethoxam respectively. There was no apparent cross-resistance to abamectin. Chlorpyrifos was synergised by the inhibitor triphenyl phosphate; the carboxylesterase synergistic ratio was 3.8 for the selected strain, but only 0.92 for the susceptible strain. The carboxylesterase activity of the selected strain was approximately 4 times that of the susceptible strain, whereas there was no significant change in the activities of alkaline phosphatase, acid phosphatase, glutathione S-transferase and cytochrome P450 monooxygenase between the strains. The Michaelis constant of acetylcholinesterase, maximum velocity of acetylcholinesterase and median inhibitory concentration of chlorpyrifos-oxon on acetylcholinesterase were 1.7, 2.5 and 5 times higher respectively in the selected strain. The high cross-resistance to the organophosphate dichlorvos in the chlorpyrifos-resistant strain suggests that other non-organophosphate insecticides would be necessary to counter resistance, should it arise in the field. Enhanced activities of carboxylesterase and the acetylcholinesterase insensitivity appear to be important mechanisms for chlorpyrifos resistance in L. striatellus.
20583380
20583715	Human activities drive biotic homogenization (loss of regional diversity) of many taxa. However, whether species interaction networks (e.g., food webs) can also become homogenized remains largely unexplored. Using 48 quantitative parasitoid-host networks replicated through space and time across five tropical habitats, we show that deforestation greatly homogenized network structure at a regional level, such that interaction composition became more similar across rice and pasture sites compared with forested habitats. This was not simply caused by altered consumer and resource community composition, but was associated with altered consumer foraging success, such that parasitoids were more likely to locate their hosts in deforested habitats. Furthermore, deforestation indirectly homogenized networks in time through altered mean consumer and prey body size, which decreased in deforested habitats. Similar patterns were obtained with binary networks, suggesting that interaction (link) presence-absence data may be sufficient to detect network homogenization effects. Our results show that tropical agroforestry systems can support regionally diverse parasitoid-host networks, but that removal of canopy cover greatly homogenizes the structure of these networks in space, and to a lesser degree in time. Spatiotemporal homogenization of interaction networks may alter coevolutionary outcomes and reduce ecological resilience at regional scales, but may not necessarily be predictable from community changes observed within individual trophic levels.
20584132	Cultivated rice fields worldwide are plagued with weedy rice, a conspecific weed of cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.). The persistence of weedy rice has been attributed, in part, to its ability to shatter (disperse) seed prior to crop harvesting. In the United States, separately evolved weedy rice groups have been shown to share genomic identity with exotic domesticated cultivars. Here, we investigate the shattering phenotype in a collection of U.S. weedy rice accessions, as well as wild and cultivated relatives. We find that all U.S. weedy rice groups shatter seeds easily, despite multiple origins, and in contrast to a decrease in shattering ability seen in cultivated groups. We assessed allelic identity and diversity at the major shattering locus, sh4, in weedy rice; we find that all cultivated and weedy rice, regardless of population, share similar haplotypes at sh4, and all contain a single derived mutation associated with decreased seed shattering. Our data constitute the strongest evidence to date of an evolution of weeds from domesticated backgrounds. The combination of a shared cultivar sh4 allele and a highly shattering phenotype, suggests that U.S. weedy rice have re-acquired the shattering trait after divergence from their progenitors through alternative genetic mechanisms.
20584133	Weedy forms of crop species infest agricultural fields worldwide and are a leading cause of crop losses, yet little is known about how these weeds evolve. Red rice (Oryza sativa), a major weed of cultivated rice fields in the US, is recognized by the dark-pigmented grain that gives it its common name. Studies using neutral molecular markers have indicated a close relationship between US red rice and domesticated rice, suggesting that the weed may have originated through reversion of domesticated rice to a feral form. We have tested this reversion hypothesis by examining molecular variation at Rc, the regulatory gene responsible for grain pigmentation differences between domesticated and wild rice. Loss-of-function mutations at Rc account for the absence of proanthocyanidin pigments in cultivated rice grains, and the major rc domestication allele has been shown to be capable of spontaneous reversion to a functional form through additional mutations at the Rc locus. Using a diverse sample of 156 weedy, domesticated and wild Oryzas, we analysed DNA sequence variation at Rc and its surrounding 4 Mb genomic region. We find that reversion of domestication alleles does not account for the pigmented grains of weed accessions; moreover, we find that haplotypes characterizing the weed are either absent or very rare in cultivated rice. Sequences from genomic regions flanking Rc are consistent with a genomic footprint of the rc selective sweep in cultivated rice, and they are compatible with a close relationship of red rice to Asian Oryzas that have never been cultivated in the US.
20584701	To assess the quality of the content of reports of telephone consultations at out-of-hours centres and to investigate to what extent the reports reflect the actual telephone consultation. Cross-sectional qualitative study; 17 out-of-hours centres in The Netherlands. To assess the quality of the content of reports, a focus group developed the Reason for calling, Information gathered, Care advice given, Evaluation of the care advice with the patient (RICE) report rating instrument. Telephone Incognito Standardised Patients presented seven different clinical problems three times to 17 out-of-hours centres. All calls were recorded and transcribed. The out-of-hours centres being called were asked for a copy of the report of the call. The authors assessed the quality of the content of the reports and compared this with the transcripts. The out-of-hours centres returned a report for 78% of the 357 calls. For the remaining 22% of the calls, no report was written. Reports contained almost always information about the medical reason for calling but little information about details of the clinical history. Patients' expectation, personal situation or perception of the care advice was seldom documented. In all but one out-of-hours centre, answers to obligatory questions were reported by triagists, although they had not been asked, varying between 1% and 54% of all questions entered. Triagists entered a subjective evaluation of a patients' condition in 12% of the reports. Reports of telephone consultations of out-of-hours centres contained little information on patients' clinical and personal condition. This could potentially endanger patients' continuity of care and might pose legal consequences for the triagist.
20584789	Cytokinins may reflect soil water status and regulate rice (Oryza sativa L.) grain filling. This study investigated the changes in cytokinin levels in rice plants and their relations with grain filling under alternate wetting and drying irrigation. Two 'super' rice cultivars were field grown. Three irrigation regimes, alternate wetting and moderate soil drying (WMD), alternate wetting and severe soil drying (WSD), and conventional irrigation (CI, continuously flooded), were imposed after flowering. No significant differences in grain-filling rate, grain weight, and cytokinin content were observed for the earlier-flowering superior spikelets among the three irrigation regimes. For the later-flowering inferior spikelets, however, their grain-filling rate and grain weight were significantly increased in the WMD and significantly reduced in the WSD when compared with those in the CI. Cytokinin contents in shoots (inferior spikelets and the flag leaves) in the WMD at the soil drying time were comparable with those in the CI, but they were significantly increased when plants were rewatered. The WSD significantly reduced cytokinin contents in the shoot either during soil drying or during the rewatering period. Cytokinin contents in roots showed no significant difference between the WMD and CI regimes. The WSD increased trans-zeatin-type cytokinins, whereas it reduced isopentenyladenine-type cytokinins, in roots. Grain-filling rate and grain weight of inferior spikelets were very significantly correlated with cytokinin contents in these spikelets. The results suggest that a post-anthesis WMD holds great promise to improve grain filling of inferior spikelets through elevating cytokinin levels in the rice shoot.
20585576	The SWR1 complex is important for the deposition of histone variant H2A.Z into chromatin necessary to robustly regulate gene expression during growth and development. In Arabidopsis thaliana, the catalytic subunit of the SWR1-like complex, encoded by PIE1 (PHOTOPERIOD-INDEPENDENT EARLY FLOWERING1), has been shown to function in multiple developmental processes including flowering time pathways and petal number regulation. However, the function of the PIE1 orthologs in monocots remains unknown. We report the identification of the rice (Oryza sativa) ortholog, OsPIE1. Although OsPIE1 does not exhibit a conserved exon/intron structure as Arabidopsis PIE1, its encoded protein is highly similar to PIE1, sharing 53.9% amino acid sequence identity. OsPIE1 also has a very similar expression pattern as PIE1. Furthermore, transgenic expression of OsPIE1 completely rescued both early flowering and extra petal number phenotypes of the Arabidopsis pie1-2 mutant. However, homozygous T-DNA insertional mutants of OsPIE1 in rice were embryonically lethal, in contrast to the viable mutants in the orthologous genes for yeast, Drosophila and Arabidopsis (Swr1, DOMINO and PIE1, respectively). Taken together, our results suggest that OsPIE1 is the rice ortholog of Arabidopsis PIE1 and plays an essential role in rice embryo development.
20586491	A versatile heat-assisted pretreatment aqueous extraction method for the analysis of arsenic species in rice was developed. Rice flour certified reference materials NIST SRM1568a and NMIJ CRM 7503-a and a flour made from polished rice were used as samples, and HPLC-ICP-MS was employed for the determination of arsenic species. Arsenite [As(III)], arsenate [As(V)], monomethylarsonic acid (MMAA) and dimethylarsinic acid (DMAA) were detected in NIST SRM, and As(III), As(V) and DMAA were found in NMIJ CRM and the prepared polished rice flour. The sums of the concentrations of all species in each rice flour sample were 97-102% of the total arsenic concentration in each sample.
20586765	Straw returning is considered to be one of the most promising carbon sequestration measures in China's cropland. A compound model, namely "Straw Returning and Burning Model-Expansion" (SRBME), was built to estimate the net mitigation potential, economic benefits, and air pollutant reduction of straw returning. Three scenarios, that is, baseline, "full popularization of straw returning (FP)," and "full popularization of straw returning and precision fertilization (FP + P)," were set to reflect popularization of straw returning. The results of the SRBME indicated that (1) compared with the soil carbon sequestration of 13.37 Tg/yr, the net mitigation potentials, which were 6.328 Tg/yr for the FP scenario and 9.179 Tg/yr for the FP + P scenario, had different trends when the full budget of the greenhouse gases was considered; (2) when the feasibility in connection with greenhouse gas (GHG) mitigation, economic benefits, and environmental benefits was taken into consideration, straw returning was feasible in 15 provinces in the FP scenario, with a total net mitigation potential of 7.192 TgCe/yr and the total benefits of CNY 1.473 billion (USD 216.6 million); (3) in the FP + P scenario, with the implementation of precision fertilization, straw returning was feasible in 26 provinces with a total net mitigation potential of 10.39 TgCe/yr and the total benefits of CNY 5.466 billion (USD 803.8 million); (4) any extent of change in the treatment of straw from being burnt to being returned would contribute to air pollution reduction; (5) some countermeasures, such as CH(4) reduction in rice paddies, precision fertilization, financial support, education and propaganda, would promote the feasibility of straw returning as a mitigation measure.
20586889	Serotonin N-acetyltransferase (SNA), a rate-limiting enzyme in melatonin biosynthesis in vertebrates, is responsible for the production of N-acetylserotonin; this molecule is then converted to melatonin by hydroxyindole-O-methyltransferase. We generated transgenic rice plants via expression of the human SNA gene under the constitutive ubiquitin promoter using Agrobacterium-mediated gene transformation. We investigated the role of SNA in the biosynthesis of melatonin and the physiological role of melatonin in rice plants. The integration and expression of the transgene were confirmed in T(1) transgenic rice seedlings by Southern, Northern, and RT-PCR analyses. High SNA-specific enzyme activities were observed in the transgenic rice plants, whereas the wild type revealed a trace level of SNA enzyme activity. The functional expression of SNA protein was closely associated with the elevated synthesis of N-acetylserotonin and melatonin in the transgenic rice plants. Experiments using both exogenous treatment of serotonin and senescent detached leaves, which contain a pool of serotonin, significantly enhanced melatonin biosynthesis, indicating that endogenous serotonin levels play a bottleneck role in the pathway of melatonin biosynthesis. Finally, the transgenic rice seedlings with high levels of melatonin showed elevated chlorophyll synthesis during cold stress, suggesting a role for melatonin in cold-stress resistance.
20587735	The causal gene of a novel small and round seed mutant phenotype (srs3) in rice was identified by map-based cloning and named the SRS3 gene. The SRS3 gene was grouped as a member of the kinesin 13 subfamily. The SRS3 gene codes for a protein of 819 amino acids that contains a kinesin motor domain and a coiled-coil structure. Using scanning electron microscopy, we determined that the cell length of seeds in the longitudinal direction in srs3 is shorter than that in the wild type. The number of cells of seeds in the longitudinal direction in srs3 was not very different from that in the wild type. The result suggests that the small and round seed phenotype of srs3 is due to a reduction in cell length of seeds in the longitudinal direction. The SRS3 protein, which is found in the crude microsomal fraction, is highly expressed in developing organs.
20589366	DNA markers that allow for identification of resistance genes in rice germplasm have a great advantage in resistance breeding because they can assess the existence of the genes without laborious inoculation tests. Functional markers (FMs), which are designed from functional polymorphisms within the sequence of genes, are unaffected by nonfunctional allelic variation and make it possible to identify an individual gene. We previously showed that the resistance function of the rice blast resistance gene Pit in a resistant cultivar, K59, was mainly acquired by up-regulated promoter activity through the insertion of a long terminal repeat (LTR) retrotransposon upstream of Pit. Here, we developed PCR-based DNA markers derived from the LTR-retrotransposon sequence and used these markers to screen worldwide accessions of rice germplasm. We identified 5 cultivars with the LTR-retrotransposon insertion out of 68 rice accessions. The sequence and expression pattern of Pit in the five cultivars were the same as those in K59 and all showed Pit-mediated blast resistance. The results suggest that the functional Pit identified using the markers was derived from a common progenitor. Additionally, comparison of the Pit coding sequences between K59 and susceptible cultivars revealed that one nucleotide polymorphism, which caused an amino acid substitution, offered another target for a FM. These results indicate that our DNA markers should enhance prediction of Pit function and be applicable to a range of rice varieties/landraces cultivated in various regions worldwide and belonging to the temperate japonica, tropical japonica, and indica groups.
20589378	As one of the key tropical crops, coconut (Cocos nucifera L.) is a member of the monocotyledonous family Aracaceae (Palmaceae). In this study, we amplified the upstream region of an endosperm-specific expression gene, Lysophosphatidyl acyltransferase (LPAAT), from the coconut genomic DNA by chromosome walking. In this sequence, we found several types of promoter-related elements including TATA-box, CAAT-box and Skn1-motif. In order to further examine its function, three different 5'-deletion fragments were inserted into pBI101.3, a plant expression vector harboring the LPAAT upstream sequence, leading to pBI101.3-L1, pBI101.3-L2 and pBI101.3-L3, respectively. We obtained transgenic plants of rice by Agrobacterium-mediated callus transformation and plant regeneration and detected the expression of gus gene by histochemical staining and fluorometric determination. We found that gus gene driven by the three deletion fragments was specifically expressed in the endosperm of rice seeds, but not in the empty vector of pBI101.3 and other tissues. The highest expression level of GUS was at 15 DAF in pBI101.3-L3 and pBI101.3-L2 transgenic lines, while the same level was detected at 10 DAF in pBI101.3-L1. The expression driven by the whole fragment was up to 1.76- and 2.8-fold higher than those driven by the -817 bp and -453 bp upstream fragments, and 10.7-fold higher than that driven by the vector without the promoter. Taken together, our results strongly suggest that these promoter fragments from coconut have a significant potential in genetically improving endosperm in main crops.
20590988	The present study was conducted to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for leaf size traits in IR64 introgression lines (INLs). For this purpose, selected F(2) populations derived from crosses between recurrent parent IR64 and its derived INLs, unique for leaf length and leaf width, were used to confirm QTLs. A total of eight QTLs, mapped on three chromosomes, were identified for the four leaf size traits in six F(2) populations. A QTL for leaf length, qLLnpt-1, in HKL69 was identified around simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker RM3709 on chromosome 1. Two QTLs for flag leaf length, qFLLnpt-2 and qFLLnpt-4, in HFG39 were indentified on chromosomes 2 and 4, respectively. For flag leaf width, a QTL, qFLWnpt-4, in HFG39 was identified around RM17483 on chromosome 4. While another QTL for flag leaf width, qFLWnpt-1, in HFG27 was identified around RM3252 on chromosome 1. A QTL for leaf width, qLWnpt-2, in HKL75 was identified around RM7451 on chromosome 2. For leaf width, two QTLs, qLWnpt-4a, qLWnpt-4b, in HKL48 and HKL99 were identified around RM7208 and RM6909, respectively on chromosome 4. Results from this study suggest the possibilities to use marker-assisted selection and pyramiding these QTLs to improve rice water productivity.
20590993	Previous studies have shown that DWARF10 (D10) is a rice ortholog of MAX4/RMS1/DAD1, encoding a carotenoid cleavage dioxygenase and functioning in strigolactones/strigolactone-derivatives (SL) biosynthesis. Here we use D10- RNA interference (RNAi) transgenic plants similar to d10 mutant in phenotypes to investigate the interactions among D10, auxin and cytokinin in regulating rice shoot branching. Auxin levels in node 1 of both decapitated D10-RNAi and wild type plants decreased significantly, showing that decapitation does reduce endogenous auxin concentration, but decapitation has no clear effects on auxin levels in node 2 of the same plants. This implies that node 1 may be the location where a possible interaction between auxin and D10 gene would be detected. D10 expression in node 1 is inhibited by decapitation, and this inhibition can be restored by exogenous auxin application, indicating that D10 may play an important role in auxin regulation of SL. The decreased expression of most OsPINs in shoot nodes of D10-RNAi plants may cause a reduced auxin transport capacity. Furthermore, effects of auxin treatment of decapitated plants on the expression of cytokinin biosynthetic genes suggest that D10 promotes cytokinin biosynthesis by reducing auxin levels. Besides, in D10-RNAi plants, decreased storage cytokinin levels in the shoot node may partly account for the increased active cytokinin contents, resulting in more tillering phenotypes.
20590996	In higher plants, male reproductive development is a complex biological process that includes cell division and differentiation, cell to cell communication etc., while the mechanism underlying plant male reproductive development remains less understood. GAMYB encodes a gibberellins acid (GA) inducible transcription factor that is required for the early anther development in rice (Oryza sativa L.). Here, we report the isolation and characterization of a new allele gamyb-4 with a C base deletion in the second exon (+2308), causing a frame shift and premature translational termination. Histological analysis showed that gamyb-4 developed abnormal enlarged tapetum and could not undergo normal meiosis. To understand the regulatory role of GAMYB, we carried out quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis and comparison of microarray data. These results revealed that the expression of TDR (TAPETUM DEGENERATION RETARDATION), a tapetal cell death regulator, was downregulated in gamyb-4 and udt1 (undeveloped tapetum1). While the GAMYB expression was not obviously changed in tdr and udt1-1, and no apparent expression fold change of UDT1 in tdr and gamyb-4, suggesting that TDR may act downstream of GAMYB and UDT1, and GAMYB and UDT1 work in parallel to regulate rice early anther development. This work is helpful in understanding the regulatory network in rice anther development.
20591144	Sucrose phosphate synthase (SPS) is an important component of the plant sucrose biosynthesis pathway. In the monocotyledonous Poaceae, five SPS genes have been identified. Here we present a detailed analysis of the wheat SPSII family in wheat. A set of homoeologue-specific primers was developed in order to permit both the detection of sequence variation, and the dissection of the individual contribution of each homoeologue to the global expression of SPSII. The expression in bread wheat over the course of development of various sucrose biosynthesis genes monitored on an Affymetrix array showed that the SPS genes were regulated over time and space. SPSII homoeologue-specific assays were used to show that the three homoeologues contributed differentially to the global expression of SPSII. Genetic mapping placed the set of homoeoloci on the short arms of the homoeologous group 3 chromosomes. A resequencing of the A and B genome copies allowed the detection of four haplotypes at each locus. The 3B copy includes an unspliced intron. A comparison of the sequences of the wheat SPSII orthologues present in the diploid progenitors einkorn, goatgrass and Triticum speltoides, as well as in the more distantly related species barley, rice, sorghum and purple false brome demonstrated that intronic sequence was less well conserved than exonic. Comparative sequence and phylogenetic analysis of SPSII gene showed that false purple brome was more similar to Triticeae than to rice. Wheat - rice synteny was found to be perturbed at the SPS region. The homoeologue-specific assays will be suitable to derive associations between SPS functionality and key phenotypic traits. The amplicon sequences derived from the homoeologue-specific primers are informative regarding the evolution of SPSII in a polyploid context.
20593124	There is a scarcity of information about the dietary intake and food selection of combat sport people. Optimizing nutritional status, body weight, and body composition are key factors for their performance. The assessment of dietary intake, food habits, and body composition in elite combat sport people. 22 sportsmen were recruited from the Spanish National Teams of Tae kwon do, Judo, and Boxing. Food intake (FFQ), food habits and body composition (DXA and Bioimpedance) were analyzed. Weight and body composition of the individuals assessed were similar to that previously described, although almost half of them were moderately over their desired competition weight. A lower than the recommended intake of vegetables (77% of individuals), cereals, bread, rice, potatoes, and pasta (73%), while red meat and derivatives intake exceeded the recommendations. Their main preferences were pasta, meat, and cereals. Legumes, vegetables, and fish were their main dislikes. A statistically significant relationship between food preferences and intakes was only observed for legumes, yogurt, and nuts. The athletes reported that reducing the intake of biscuits and confectionery (68% of individuals), high-fat foods (36%), and/or bread (27%) would be a good dietetic strategy for losing weight. None of them reported that voluntary dehydration would be a good strategy for this purpose. food offer to which this sport people have access and their choices are adequate, although the intake of some food groups (vegetables, red meat and derivatives) does not follow the recommendations. Their body weight slightly exceeds their competition weight, what it is frequently found in these sports. Nevertheless, their knowledge about nutrition and dietetics applied to exercise are acceptable.
20593185	The hybrid Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) δ-endotoxin gene Cry1Ab/Ac was used to develop a transgenic Bt rice (Oryza sativa L.) targeting lepidopteran insects of rice. Here, we show the production of a marker-free and tissue-specific expressing transgenic Bt rice line L24 using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation and a chemically regulated, Cre/loxP-mediated DNA recombination system. L24 carries a single copy of marker-free T-DNA that contains the Cry1Ab/Ac gene driven by a maize phosphoenolpyruvate carboxylase (PEPC) gene promoter. The marker-free T-DNA was integrated into the 3' untranslated region of rice gene Os01g0154500 on the short arm of chromosome 1. Compared to the constitutive and non-specific expression of the P (Actin1):Cry1Ab/Ac:T (Nos) gene in the control Bt rice line T51-1, the P (Pepc):Cry1Ab/Ac:T (Nos) gene was detected only in the leaf and stem tissues of L24. More importantly, compared to high levels of CRY1Ab/Ac proteins accumulated in T51-1 seeds, the CRY1Ab/Ac proteins were not detectable in L24 seeds by Western blot analysis. As demonstrated by insect bioassay, L24 provided similar level of resistance to rice leaffolder (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis) as T51-1. The marker-free transgenic line L24 can be used directly in rice breeding for insect resistance to lepidopteran insects where absence of Bt toxin protein in the seed is highly desirable.
20593223	Epidermal cell layers play important roles in plant defenses against various environmental stresses. Here we report the identification of a cuticle membrane mutant, wilted dwarf and lethal 1 (wdl1), from a rice T-DNA insertional population. The mutant is dwarf and die at seedling stage due to increased rates of water loss. Stomatal cells and pavement cells are smaller in the mutant, suggesting that WDL1 affects epidermal cell differentiation. T-DNA was inserted into a gene that encodes a protein belonging to the SGNH subfamily, within the GDSL lipase superfamily. The WDL1-sGFP signal coincided with the RFP signal driven by AtBIP-mRFP, indicating that WDL1 is an ER protein. SEM analyses showed that their leaves have a disorganized crystal wax layer. Cross-sectioning reveals loose packing of the cuticle and irregular thickness of cell wall. Detailed analyses of the epicuticular wax showed no significant changes either in the total amount and amounts of each monomer or in the levels of lipid polymers, including cutin and other covalently bound lipids, attached to the cell wall. We propose that WDL1 is involved in cutin organization, affecting depolymerizable components.
20593392	MEKC coupling with LIF detection has been used for the determination of four aflatoxins (B(1), B(2), G(1) and G(2)). Separations were performed in an uncoated fused-silica capillary (70 cm x 75 microm id, 55 cm effective length), using 20 mM borate buffer with 30 mM SDS (pH 8.5) and 7% ACN. In order to increase sensitivity, an on-line preconcentration procedure was applied, based on sweeping, using the same separation buffer without SDS as solvent of the sample. The precision of the method was evaluated in terms of repeatability and intermediate precision and the results were acceptable in all cases (RSD<12%). With the on-line preconcentration LODs (obtained as 3 x S/N) were as low as 0.11, 0.52, 0.04 and 0.10 microg/L for G(2), G(1), B(2) and B(1), respectively. Recovery studies were developed with extracts of rice samples spiked with aflatoxins, being in the range between 93.0 and 105.4%. The method has also been applied to the determination of aflatoxins in rice samples, and the results compared with those obtained by a standard method, being in good agreement.
20593516	QTLNetworkR is an R package that aims to provide a user-friendly and platform-independent tool to visualize quantitative trait loci (QTL) mapping results. The graphical functions of the QTLNetworkR are based upon lattice and grid packages, and the graphical user interface (GUI) of the QTLNetworkR is built upon RGtk2 and gWidgetsRGtk2 packages. Six functions are designed to help visualize marker interval, putative QTL, QTL-by-environment interactions, marker interval interactions, epistasis, and the predicted genetic architecture of complex traits. It is especially helpful in profiling results for multiple traits at multiple environments. The current version of QTLNetworkR is able to accept QTL mapping results from QTLNetwork, and it is ready for possible extensions to import results from some other QTL mapping software packages. In addition, we presented a QTL mapping result in rice (Oryza sativa) as an example to describe the features of QTLNetworkR.
20593852	X-ray-based imaging is one of the most powerful and convenient methods in terms of versatility in applicable energy and high performance in use. Different from conventional nuclear medicine imaging, contrast agents are required in X-ray imaging especially for effectively targeted and molecularly specific functions. Here, in contrast to much reported static accumulation of the contrast agents in targeted organs, dynamic visualization in a living organism is successfully accomplished by the particle-traced X-ray imaging for the first time. Flow phenomena across perforated end walls of xylem vessels in rice are monitored by a gold nanoparticle (AuNP) (approximately 20 nm in diameter) as a flow tracing sensor working in nontransparent biofluids. AuNPs are surface-modified to control the hydrodynamic properties such as hydrodynamic size (DH), zeta-potential, and surface plasmonic properties in aqueous conditions. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray nanoscopy (XN), and X-ray microscopy (XM) are used to correlate the interparticle interactions with X-ray absorption ability. Cluster formation and X-ray contrast ability of the AuNPs are successfully modulated by controlling the interparticle interactions evaluated as flow-tracing sensors.
20594785	This study demonstrated statistical correlations between a novel self-administered odor questionnaire (SAOQ) and other olfaction tests in patients with olfactory disorders, and the usefulness of this questionnaire was discussed. Between December 2004 and November 2009 (5 years), the SAOQ was completed by 405 healthy people without any nasal diseases (Group A) and 539 patients with an olfactory disorder (Group B) at the Department of Otolaryngology, Hyogo College of Medicine. This was a prospective study. The SAOQ proposed by the Japan Rhinology Society is a self-administered survey consisting of 20 smell-related items: "steamed rice, miso, seaweed, soy sauce, baked bread, butter, curry, garlic, orange, strawberry, green tea, coffee, chocolate, household gas, garbage, timber, stercus, sweat, flower, and perfume". The normal reference range of scores (%) of the SAOQ was calculated in Group A. To determine whether the results of the SAOQ were correlated with those of visual analogue scale (VAS) and T&T olfactometer, pre- and post-treatment results of the SAOQ and olfaction tests were analyzed. The questionnaire response rates were 99.5% (403/405 people) in Group A and 95.9% (517/539 patients) in Group B. The statistically normal reference level of the SAOQ was determined as more than 70%. In Group B, the mean pre-treatment SAOQ score (20.4%), VAS score (16.5%), and T&T recognition threshold (5.0) significantly improved to values of 46.7%, 41.1%, and 4.1 after treatments, respectively (n=249). Both pre- and post-treatment SAOQ scores (ΔQ) had statistically significant relationships with those of VAS and T&T (n=249). The utility of the SAOQ as an easy method of estimating olfaction was suggested.
20594829	This study elucidates the co-composting of biosolids and spent activated clay (SAC) using physio-chemical, bioassay, and spectroscopic methods. A pilot-scale pile of blended limed biosolids, SAC, and rice husk was composted for 15weeks. The changes in temperature, pH, Fourier-transform infrared (FT-IR) spectra, C/N, and germination index (GI) of Chinese cabbage (Brassica chinensis) seeds with time support the goal of producing a mature compost with a decline in the SAC acidity of associated with biosolids. Cadmium, Cr, Cu, Ni, and Pb in the initial biosolids were converted from labile fractions into relatively immobile phases upon maturation. Temperature, moisture, pH, C/N, and GI were used to separate the composting process into three phases - initial, thermophilic, and cooling, based on a score plot of principal component analysis (PCA). The values of the parameters of interest reveal that the compost fulfills the requirements of compost maturity in the literature.
20594831	A novel mesoporous lignin/silica hybrid prepared from rice husks at different pH values was produced in situ using the sol-gel process. The optimum conditions for hybrid formation were 90 degrees C and pH 3 for 6h in the presence of 2 mol L(-1) H(2)SO(4). The lignin/silica ratio reached 2:3 (41.67% lignin, 58.33% silica). The hybrid with various pore structures was spherical with diameters of approximately 60 nm and a specific surface of 471.7 m(2)/g. Such lignin/silica hybrid material originating from rice husks can potentially be used to decontaminate environmental objects.
20594954	Food-derived bioactive peptides promote functional activity against diseases and present as nutraceutical agents. The purpose of our research was to isolate and fully characterize peptide(s) derived from rice bran having anti-cancer properties. Gastrointestinal juices resistant peptide fractions were initially generated from heat stabilized de-fatted rice bran from which <5 kDa fraction was shown to inhibit proliferation of cancer cells. Based on these published findings the <5 kDa peptide fraction was selected for further characterization to obtain single pure peptide(s) with enhanced anti-cancer properties. Purification and characterization from the fraction was done employing chromatography and mass spectrometric techniques. Cancer cell viability was measured using a cell titer assay that uses a tetrazolium dye [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium, inner salt; (MTS)] and the electron coupling reagent, phenazine methosulfate. Ion-exchange chromatography elutes that showed anti-cancer properties were further purified to liberate pure peptide. The pure peptide at 600-700 microg/mL dose caused 84% inhibition to colon cancer cells (Caco-2, HCT-116) growth, 80% to breast cancer cells (MCF-7, MDA-MB-231) growth and 84% to liver cancer cells (HepG-2) growth. Mass spectrometry analysis and de novo sequencing revealed the sequence of Glu-Gln-Arg-Pro-Arg for the peptide with a molecular mass of 685.378 Da. A novel pentapeptide was isolated from rice bran to possess cancer growth inhibitory properties on colon, breast, lung and liver cancer cells. This peptide could serve as a nutraceutical agent against cancer.
2059556	An assessment of the growth rate pattern based on longitudinal weight data of guinea pigs was conducted over the presumptive preweaning and early postweaning period. The study covered the minimum of 44 and maximum of 53 days with means calculated for 3-day intervals involving 13 litters and a total of 40 young. Initial analysis showed males heavier than females at birth and both sexes being inversely proportional to litter size at birth. At the end of the experimental period the males were still heavier than the females but their weight distribution peaked in litter of three while the females were heaviest in the largest litters of five and lightest in the litter of one. Phasic linear regression line analysis revealed 4 litters with a triphasic growth outline and 6 litters with quadrophasic growth outline. Final assessments indicate that the total period of 53 days manifests a quadrophasic growth outline while, in contrast, the period specifically involved with the process of lactation and weaning displays a definite diphasic growth spectrum and is comparable to the tri- or quadrophasic spectrum occurring in the albino rats, rice rats and hamsters.
20596069	Nitrogen, one of the limiting factors for the yield of rice, can also have an important function in methane oxidation, thus affecting its global budget. Rice microcosms, planted in the greenhouse, were treated with the N-fertilizers urea (UPK) and ammonium sulfate (APK) or were only treated with phosphorous and potassium (PK). Methane oxidation rates in PK and UPK treatments were similar during most of the rice-growing season, revealing no effect of urea. However, ammonium sulfate strongly suppressed methanogenesis providing an unfavorable environment for methanotrophs in APK treatment. Roots and rhizospheric soil samples, collected from six different growth stages of the rice plant, were analyzed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) of the pmoA gene. Assignment of abundant T-RFs to cloned pmoA sequences indicated that the populations on roots were dominated by type-I methanotrophs, whereas the populations in rhizospheric soil were dominated by type-II methanotrophs irrespectively of growth stages and fertilizer treatments. Non-metric multidimensional scaling ordination analysis of T-RFLP profiles revealed that the methanotrophic community was significantly (P<0.001) affected by the different fertilizer treatments; however, the effect was stronger on the roots than in the rhizospheric soil. Contrary to pmoA gene-based analysis, pmoA transcript-based T-RFLP/cloning/sequencing analysis in rhizospheric soil showed type I as the predominant methanotrophs in both PK and UPK treatments. Collectively, our study showed that type-I methanotrophs were dominant and probably active in rhizospheric soil throughout the season irrespective of nitrogen fertilizer used, whereas type-II methanotrophs were relatively more dominant under unfavorable conditions, such as in APK treatment.
20597312	Red colored rice, i.e., red rice has been utilized for centuries as food and medicine in Asia. Due to its method of preparation, red rice may contain statins. Products containing it are currently marketed for lowering of blood cholesterol in Western countries. Since at least some red rice preparations contain about 5 to 10 mg of lovastatin in the daily dose recommended on the package, these preparations may lower blood cholesterol levels, and exhibit similar drawbacks and interactions as the statin drugs.
20597545	Monascus purpureus NTU 568 was a mutant strain from M. purpureus HM105. The methanol extract of red mold rice fermented by this strain exhibited four major yellow pigment signals on HPLC profile. By repeated chemical chromatography methods, three new azaphilone derivatives, namely, monaphilone A (1), B (2) and C (3), along with the known pigments ankaflavin (4) and monascin (5), were isolated and characterized. Based on spectroscopic analyses, mainly 1D and 2D NMR data, the structures of compounds 1-3 were completely elucidated; in addition, 1-3 were determined to be new azaphilone structures, due to the decrease of carbon monoxide for producing a gamma-lactone ring, compared with other azaphilone derivatives. Biological evaluations showed that monaphilone A (1) and B (2) exhibited an antiproliferative effect against HEp-2 (human laryngeal carcinoma cell line) and WiDr (human colon adenocarcinoma cell line), and none of the five compounds had toxicity to normal human lung cell lines (WI-38 and MRC-5) at 70 muM.
20598200	Multispectral analysis combined with the Periodic Acid-Schiff method was used to investigate cytological features of insoluble polysaccharides and changes in total insoluble polysaccharide content (TPC) during pollen development in rice, including four cytoplasmic male sterility lines (MSLs) and their corresponding fertility-maintaining lines (FMLs). The multispectral curves of the relative transmittance value (RTV) and the images of developing pollen cells were obtained across a range of successive wavelengths (400-720 nm). A minimum RTV was found near 550 nm indicating an absorption peak of the TPC. Thus, the TPC was measured using the RTV of 550 nm. In the four FMLs, the minimum TPC of developing pollen cells occurred at the late microspore stage, while the maximum TPC occurred at the mature pollen grain stage. The TPC levels of pollen cells were significantly higher in the four FMLs than in their corresponding MSLs during and after pollen abortion. Notably, a steep decrease of multispectral curves at 420 nm appeared before the occurrence of abortion, implying a marker associated with pollen abortion in rice. Our results will be helpful for exploring the changes in TPC during pollen ontogenesis in rice and provide a novel method for the study of bio-macromolecules.
20598788	To assess the effects of tropospheric O3 on rice cultivated in Bangladesh, four Bangladeshi cultivars (BR11, BR14, BR28 and BR29) of rice (Oryza sativa L.) were exposed daily to charcoal-filtered air or O3 at 60 and 100 nl l(-1) (10:00-17:00) from 1 July to 28 November 2008. The whole-plant dry mass and grain yield per plant of the four cultivars were significantly reduced by the exposure to O3. The exposure to O3 significantly reduced net photosynthetic rate of the 12th and flag leaves of the four cultivars. The sensitivity to O3 of growth, yield and leaf gas exchange rates was not significantly different among the four cultivars. The present study suggests that the sensitivity to O3 of yield of the four Bangladeshi rice cultivars is greater than that of American rice cultivars and is similar to that of Japanese rice cultivars and that O3 may detrimentally affect rice production in Bangladesh.
20599854	Gas chromatographic characterizations of fatty alcohols are generally carried out as the free alcohols, trimethyl silyl or acetyl derivatives. In this study, transesterification/acetylation of long chain fatty alcohols is simply carried out by dissolving the alcohol in ethyl/methyl acetate and passing through a micro-column packed with solid NaOH. Reaction times are slightly different for alcohols of different chain length. Rice bran alcohols of 24-34 carbon atom are successfully acetylated. Also, castor oil methyl ester can be interesterified but with longer reaction time.
20600200	Androstane brassinosteroid analogues with alpha-azido acid ester groups in position 17beta were synthesized from 2alpha,3alpha,17beta-trihydroxy-5alpha-androstan-6-one after the protection of the 2alpha,3alpha-diols upon treatment with the corresponding alpha-azido acid and the subsequent deprotection of the diol grouping. Six new castasterone analogues were prepared. The biological activities were evaluated in two bioassays: a rice lamina inclination test and bean second internode bioassays. The activities of the new analogues differ in these two bioassays.
20600418	The shrimp paste called belacan is a traditional umami taste condiment extensively used in Malaysia that is rich in glutamate and 5'-nucleotides. The aim of this study was to determine the concentration of glutamate and 5'-nucleotides of various types of foods prepared with belacan and to measure their sensory attributes. The concentration of free glutamic acid found in different brands of belacan was 180-530mg/100g and in local dishes 601-4207mg/100g. The total amount of 5'-nucleotides in belacan samples ranged from 0.85 to 42.25μg/g. A Quantitative Descriptive Analysis (QDA) using a list of 17 sensory attributes showed a good correlation between belacan concentration in the final food and a range of positive sensory attributes, except for bitter, sweet, sour taste and astringency. Belacan also contains bitter, sweet and sour compounds that change the positive attributes of belacan at higher concentrations. The highest aroma attributes were linked to nasi goreng belacan (belacan fried rice) while the highest flavour attributes were found in sambal belacan. There was a 32 folds significant increase of umami attributes with the addition of belacan to final foods. The optimum amount of belacan was 0.45% for asam pedas (tamarind flavoured dish with belacan), 18% for sambal belacan (chilli belacan), 1.5-2.5% for kangkong goreng belacan (stir fried water convolous with belacan), and 2% for nasi goreng belacan.
20600702	We investigated 151 non-redundant NAC genes in rice and 117 in Arabidopsis. A complete overview of this gene family in rice is presented, including gene structures, phylogenies, genome localizations, and expression profiles. We also performed a comparative analysis of these genes in rice and Arabidopsis. Conserved amino acid residues and phylogeny construction using the NAC conserved domain sequence suggest that OsNAC gene family was classified broadly into two major groups (A and B) and sixteen subgroups in rice. We presented more specific phylogenetic analysis of OsNAC proteins based on the DNA-binding domain and known gene function, respectively. Loss of introns was observed in the segmental duplication. Homologous, paralogous, and orthologous searches of rice and Arabidopsis revealed that the major functional diversification within the NAC gene family predated the divergence of monocots and dicots. The chromosomal localizations of OsNAC genes indicated nine segmental duplication events involving 18 genes; 32 non-redundant OsNAC genes were involved in tandem duplications. Expression levels of this gene family were checked under various abiotic stresses (cold, drought, submergence, laid-down submergence, osmotic, salinity and hormone) and biotic stresses [infection with rice viruses such as RSV (rice stripe virus) and RTSV (rice tungro spherical virus)]. Biotic stresses are novel work and increase the possibilities for finding the best candidate genes. A preliminary search based on our microarray (22K and 44K) data suggested that more than 45 and 26 non-redundant genes in this family were upregulated in response to abiotic and biotic stresses, respectively. All of the genes were further investigated for their stress responsiveness by RT-PCR analysis. Six genes showed preferential expression under both biotic RSV and RTSV stress. Eleven genes were upregulated by at least three abiotic treatments. Our study provides a very useful reference for cloning and functional analysis of members of this gene family in rice.
20601240	Our objectives were to correlate the mineral density (MD) and elastic modulus (E) of natural white spot lesions (WSLs) and compare them with analytical and numerical models. Five natural WSLs from four extracted sound premolar teeth were scanned at a voxel size of 7.6μm using a desktop X-ray microtomography (XRMT) system. Five hydroxyapatite phantoms with densities ranging from 1.52 to 3.14gcm⁻³ were used as calibration standards for each scan. MD throughout the WSLs was quantified using an MD calibration equation derived from hydroxyapatite phantoms. Subsequently, teeth were cross-sectioned and the E modulus was measured systematically across the WSLs at intervals of 25 and 50μm using nanoindentation. The MD and E modulus of WSLs correlated well. The relationship may be expressed as E=E⁰exp(-bP) (R²=0.952) with E⁰ the elastic modulus of the fully dense material, P the porosity and b a constant. The results for sound enamel were compared with Spears model. The limitation of Spears model to the WSLs is discussed and an alternative model developed by Rice for porous materials is proposed. Clinical implications of this work for quantifying de-/remineralization of teeth are pointed out. We conclude that XRMT can be utilized to extrapolate the E modulus of WSLs. This provides a basis for non-destructive, longitudinal analysis of WSLs in de-/remineralization studies of enamel.
20601638	Chinese immigrants in the United States experience a higher incidence of cancers of the oral cavity, pharynx, stomach, and liver and higher rates of tuberculosis and hepatitis B virus than other U.S. immigrant groups. Because of language and cultural barriers, many do not seek the health information they need, resulting in delayed diagnosis and inability to effectively manage health problems. The purpose of this study was to identify the cultural beliefs and meanings influencing the utilization behaviors and perceptions of how this group finds and uses the health information they need. Using an explorative qualitative descriptive design, 24 Chinese immigrants in two urban centers in the northwestern part of the United States were interviewed about their beliefs and perceptions of health information. Results revealed many challenges that served as barriers to health promotion, indicating that health care providers need to respond to the needs of this population with increased thoughtfulness and culturally relevant practices.
20602115	Identification of genes for quantitative traits is difficult using any single approach due to complex inheritance of the traits and limited resolving power of the individual techniques. Here a combination of genetic mapping and bulked transcriptome profiling was used to narrow down the number of differentially expressed salt-responsive genes in rice in order to identify functional polymorphism of genes underlying the quantitative trait loci (QTL). A population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from cross between salt-tolerant variety CSR 27 and salt-sensitive variety MI 48 was used to map QTL for salt ion concentrations in different tissues and salt stress susceptibility index (SSI) for spikelet fertility, grain weight, and grain yield. Eight significant QTL intervals were mapped on chromosomes 1, 8, and 12 for the salt ion concentrations and a QTL controlling SSI for spikelet fertility was co-located in one of these intervals on chromosome 8. However, there were total 2,681 genes in these QTL intervals, making it difficult to pinpoint the genes responsible for the functional differences for the traits. Similarly, transcriptome profiling of the seedlings of tolerant and sensitive parents grown under control and salt-stress conditions showed 798 and 2,407 differentially expressed gene probes, respectively. By analyzing pools of RNA extracted from ten each of extremely tolerant and extremely sensitive RILs to normalize the background noise, the number of differentially expressed genes under salt stress was drastically reduced to 30 only. Two of these genes, an integral transmembrane protein DUF6 and a cation chloride cotransporter, were not only co-located in the QTL intervals but also showed the expected distortion of allele frequencies in the extreme tolerant and sensitive RILs, and therefore are suitable for future validation studies and development of functional markers for salt tolerance in rice to facilitate marker-assisted breeding.
20602921	A novel stir bar coated with molecularly imprinted polymer (MIP) as selective extraction phase for sorptive extraction of triazine herbicides was developed. The stir bar was prepared by chemically bonding the MIP to the glass bar to improve its stability. A homogeneous and porous structure was observed on the stir bar surface. Extraction performance shows that the MIP-coated stir bar has stronger affinity to the template molecule terbuthylazine as compared with that of the reference stir bar without addition of template. Owning to the shape and structural compatibility, the obtained stir bar also demonstrated specific selectivity to the structural related-compounds of nine triazines, and thus can be applied to simultaneous determination of these compounds from complex samples coupled with high performance liquid chromatography. Four complex samples with different matrix, including rice, apple, lettuce and soil were used to evaluate this proposed method. The limits of detection obtained are in the range of 0.04-0.12 microg L(-1), and the recoveries for the spiked rice, apple, lettuce and soil samples were 80.8-107.7%, 80.6-107.8%, 72.0-109.8% and 89.0-114.8% with RSD from 1.2 to 7.9%, respectively. Moreover, this MIP-coated stir bar was firm, durable and can be prepared simply and reproducibly. The developed coating method would be useful to prepare a range of selective stir bars in order to extend the applicability of stir bar sorptive extraction (SBSE) in complex sample analysis.
20603281	Rice is the staple food and rice production consumes about 50% of the fresh water resources in China. In addition, drought is one of the most important constraints in rice resulting in large yield losses and limiting the average yield increase of the country. There is an urgent need to enhance water-saving (W) capacity or drought resistance (DR) of rice. WDR varieties can be developed through introgressing the water-saving and drought resistance capacity mainly from the traditional upland to the commercialized paddy rice cultivars. The breeding target is a high yield potential under irrigation, an acceptable grain quality, and water consumption reduced by about 50% compared with paddy rice. In a water-limited environment, a higher level of drought resistance and reduced yield loss by drought stress are required. In recent years, the field drought-resistance screening facility was established and the evaluation standard was developed. Some DR rice varieties were identified and used in both molecular mapping and breeding programmes. Several WDR varieties were developed and released to farmers. This article describes our initial achievement towards this goal and provides some details on the rationale and the specific steps and methods used.
20603282	Sucrose transporters (SUTs) are known to play critical roles in the uptake of sucrose from the apoplast in various steps of sugar translocation. Because developing pollen is symplastically isolated from anther tissues, it is hypothesized that SUTs are active in the uptake of apoplastic sucrose into pollen. To investigate this possibility, a comprehensive expression analysis was performed for members of the SUT gene family in the developing pollen of rice (Oryza sativa L.) using real-time RT-PCR combined with a laser microdissection technique. Among the five SUT genes, OsSUT1 and OsSUT3 were found to be preferentially expressed and had temporal expression patterns that were distinct from each other. Expression of OsSUT1 in pollen was confirmed by a promoter-GUS fusion assay. The physiological function of OsSUT1 in pollen was further investigated using retrotransposon insertion mutant lines. While the homozygote of disrupted OsSUT1 (SUT1-/-) could not be obtained, heterozygote plants (SUT1+/-) showed normal grain filling. Their progeny segregated into SUT1+/- and SUT1+/+ with the ratio of 1:1, suggesting that the pollen disrupted for OsSUT1 is dysfunctional. This hypothesis was reinforced in vivo by a backcross of SUT1+/- plants with wild-type plants and also by in vitro pollen germination on the artificial media. However, starch accumulation during pollen development was not affected by disruption of OsSUT1, suggesting that the sugar(s) required for starch biosynthesis is supplied by other sugar transporters.
20603747	A heterologous indirect enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed, which was based on monoclonal antibody (Mab) to determine parathion residue in agricultural and environmental samples. Eight Mabs were produced by introducing the heterologous indirect ELISA into the screening procedure. It was shown that these Mabs had more broad-reactivity with twenty competitors than that of 5H7 (Mab produced by homologous screening). So it became much easier using these new Mabs to develop heterologous immunoassays. In addition, all the developed heterologous ELISAs could be used to determine parathion residue in semiquantitative or quantitative level, and their detection limitation (LOD) was around 2 ng/mL. Compared with the previous heterologous ELISA (hapten 11/5H7) with IC(50) of 13.3 ng/mL, a better heterologous ELISA (hapten 11/1E1) was obtained with IC(50) of 3.8 ng/mL, which improved the sensitivity 3.5 times. Finally, the latter was applied to parathion residue determination in spiked agricultural and environmental samples without extraction or cleanup. The average recoveries of parathion added to water, soil, cucumber, Chinese cabbage and carrot were between 80.4 % and 111.8 %. The LOD for water and soil samples was 5 ng/mL, and the LOD for cucumber, rice and corn samples was 10 ng/mL.
20605677	Highly mesoporous activated carbons (ACs) with a mesopore fraction ranging from 42 to 73% were obtained by activation of rice straw (RS) with ortho-phosphoric acid (PA). Due to such a high mesoporosity, these ACs can be successfully used for pollutant removal in aqueous phase. The ACs were prepared at activation temperatures (T) ranging from 350 to 500 degrees C, using PA to RS weight ratios (R) from 0 to 1.6 and activation times from 0 to 2 h. They were characterised by nitrogen adsorption at -196 degrees C, SEM-EDX, and methylene blue adsorption. RS is a very heterogeneous material with a variable content of mineral matter: using the product of activated carbon yield multiplied by surface area (CxS(BET)) as the performance criterion, the best AC was produced at T=450 degrees C and R>or=1. These conditions lead to S(BET) higher than 500 m(2) g(-1) and a CxS(BET) around 270 m(2) g(-1).
20606598	It is not known whether deeper or longer hypothermia (HT) can achieve better neuroprotection against hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy (HIE) in neonates. To compare the neuroprotective effects of different durations and temperatures of postischemic HT in neonatal rats with severe HIE, 7-d-old rats were subjected to the Rice-Vannucci model for 150 min hypoxia. Only the rats with identified brain lesions in diffusion-weighted MRI were assigned to normothermia (NT, 36° C/48 h) or four HT (HT-30° C/48 h; HT-30° C/24 h; HT-33° C/48 h; and HT-33° C/24 h) groups. H-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (H-MRS) and T2-weighted MRI were obtained serially, and functional studies were performed. HT groups showed significantly greater residual hemispheric volume and better rotarod and cylinder tests than did the NT group at 5 wk postischemia. HT groups also showed lower lactate-plus-lipid level in H-MRS than did the NT group at 7 d postischemia. All of these outcome variables, however, did not differ among the 4 HT subgroups, despite a trend toward greater residual brain volume in the 48-h HT versus 24-h HT subgroups. In conclusion, neither reducing the target temperature from 33 to 30° C nor prolonging the duration from 24 to 48 h produced further improvements in neurologic outcomes in neonatal rat with HIE.
20607290	Flowering time is a major determinant for the local adaptation of crops. Hd1 is a key flowering-time gene in rice and is orthologous to the Arabidopsis CONSTANS gene. To elucidate the role of Hd1 in selection, we examined the Hd1 alleles of 60 landraces of Asian cultivated rice (Oryza sativa L.) originating from all regions of Asia, which comprised three cultivar groups, indica, japonica, and aus. The identified alleles were classified into four allele groups. The functional Hd1 alleles in allele groups I and II corresponded to indica and japonica, respectively. Non-functional alleles in these groups were not clearly associated with cultivar groups or locations. Allele groups III and IV corresponded to the aus cultivar group. The ancestry of each cultivar group was identified by the coalescent approach for Hd1 molecular evolution using the haplotype patterns of 14 regions over the 1.1 Mb chromosomal region surrounding Hd1 and the pSINE patterns of two loci, 1.4 and 4.4 Mb apart from Hd1. The haplotype patterns clearly revealed that Hd1 allele migration was caused by multiple and complex introgression events between cultivar groups. The Hd1 haplotypes among dozens of accessions of the wild species O. rufipogon were strongly divergent and only two of the haplotype clusters in O. rufipogon were closely related to those in cultivated rice. This strongly suggested that multiple introgression events have played an important role in the shaping and diversification of adaptation in addition to primary selection steps at the beginning of domestication.
20607362	DEAD-box proteins comprise a large family and function in RNA metabolism. Although DEAD-box proteins are highly conserved among eukaryotes, little is known about the role of DEAD-box proteins in rice. In this study, we identified a rice DEAD-box protein, OsRH36, and demonstrated that OsRH36 and AtRH36 are functional orthologs. OsRH36 was expressed ubiquitously throughout the plant and the OsRH36-GFP fusion protein was localized to the nucleus and nucleolus. Furthermore, functional complementation tests among three homologous DEAD-box protein genes indicated that OsRH36 can restore segregation distortion in the Arabidopsis atrh36-1 mutant, but cannot complement the lethal phenotype in the yeast dbp8p mutant. Moreover, mutation of osrh36 also led to defective transmission of the osrh36 allele, as shown for the atrh36 mutants of Arabidopsis. Previously, we have shown that AtRH36 is involved at an early stage of rRNA maturation and is required for synchronous development of female gametophytes in Arabidopsis. Therefore, we suggest that OsRH36 is required for rRNA biogenesis and megagametogenesis in rice, consistent with the function of AtRH36 in Arabidopsis.
20608550	A young, female black-eared kite was rescued from a small reservoir adjacent to a rice paddy in Nagano Prefecture, Japan. The bird was given a fluid diet through the esophagus and started to eat by herself from the fifth day. Her fecal samples were examined for parasites on the seventh day and fluke eggs were detected. Capillaria and Ascarididae eggs were also detected from day 19 and day 32, respectively. The bird started to show loss of appetite from day 22 and finally showed no appetite on day 35. On day 38, the bird was treated with Profender Spot (Bayer Health Care, Tokyo, Japan) but died on day 41. A necropsy revealed a thickened air sac associated with considerable fungal growth. Histopathologic examination showed that the mucous membrane of the saccobronchus was thickened with hyphal proliferation, and the fungus was identified as Aspergillus fumigatus. A number of trematodes, thin nematodes, and four roundworms were obtained from the alimentary tract. Parasitologically, they were identified as Neodiplotomum pseudattenuatum, a Capillaria sp., and Porrocaecum phalacrocoracis, respectively. In conclusion, the bird was diagnosed as having fungal airsacculitis associated with multiple helminth infestations.
20609074	Melatonin exists in numerous living organisms including vertebrates, insects, fungi, bacteria, and plants. Extensive studies have been conducted on the physiological roles of melatonin in various plant species. In plants, melatonin seems to act in antioxidant protection, as a growth promoter, and in photoperiodism. However, the mechanisms by which melatonin carries out these roles remain unclear. We manipulated the endogenous melatonin content in tomato plants by modifying the metabolic enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO). The OsIDO gene was isolated from rice (Oryza sativa) and characterized using 3-D homology modeling and reverse genetic approaches. The amino acid sequence of OsIDO showed high homology to the Ustilago maydis IDO. The 3-D model structure of OsIDO is composed of a small and a large domain. Transgenic tomato plants constitutively expressing the OsIDO gene exhibited a decrease in their melatonin content. Moreover, the number of lateral leaflets decreased in transgenic plants. Protein extracts taken from these plants showed activity degradation, demonstrating the function of OsIDO. These results suggest the involvement of IDO in plant melatonin metabolism and a possible role in plant leaf development.
20609275	Two novel full-length P450 cDNAs, CYP6CS1 and CYP6CW1, were cloned from the fourth instar nymphs of brown planthopper Nilaparvata lugens Stål (Hemiptera: Delphacidae) reared on its susceptible rice variety Taichung Native 1 (TN1) plants. The deduced proteins are typical microsomal P450s sharing conserved structural and functional domains with other insect CYP6 members. Temporal expression analysis by northern blot hybridization indicated pre-exposure to N. lugens moderately resistant rice Minghui 63 (MH63) seedlings caused a time course-dependent induction of CYP6CS1 which peaked after 24 h of treatment; in contrast, CYP6CW1 was induced and remained at a constant time course from 0-72 h. CYP6CS1 and CYP6CW1 are dramatically induced in gut tissues and, slightly upregulated in carcass and fat bodies as revealed in spatial gene expression analysis. Whole mount in situ hybridizaion revealed that the two genes are expressed at a basal level in gut tissue and Malpighian tubules in nymphs fed with TN1 rice. After exposure to MH63, the expression of CYP6CW1 was found to be high in the whole gut, including Malpighian tubules. Expression of CYP6CS1 was significantly increased in midgut, and slightly increased in foregut, hindgut and Malpighian tubules. These data suggest a potential role of the two P450s in determining patterns of N. lugens-rice relationships through allelochemical detoxification.
20609581	Agaricus arvensis, a newly isolated basidiomycetous fungus, was found to secrete efficient cellulases. The strain produced the highest endoglucanase (EG), cellobiohydrolase (CBH) and beta-glucosidase (BGL) activities of 0.3, 3.2 and 8U/mg-protein, respectively, with rice straw as the carbon source. Saccharification of the woody biomass with A. arvensis cellulase as the enzyme source released a high level of fermentable sugars. Enzymatic hydrolysis of the poplar biomass was optimized using the response surface methodology in order to study the influence of the variables (pH, temperature, cellulases concentration and substrate concentration). The enzyme and substrate concentrations were identified as the limiting factors for the saccharification of poplar wood biomass. A total reducing sugar level of 29g/L (293mg/g-substrate) was obtained at an enzyme concentration of 65FPU/g-substrate after optimization of the hydrolysis parameters. The model validation showed a good agreement between the experimental results and the predicted responses. A. arvensis could be a good candidate for the production of reducing sugars from a cellulosic biomass.
20609623	Plaa-som is a Thai fermented fish prepared from freshwater fish and various ingredients. In this study, two strains of lactic acid bacteria (LAB) isolated from natural plaa-som fermentation were used as starter cultures: Lactobacillus plantarum IFRPD P15 and Lactobacillus reuteri IFRPD P17. These strains were used as a mixed starter culture for plaa-som using an air-drying method (laminar airflow) with sterilized rice grains as the filler. This method produced a suitable starter culture, which was maintained at 4 °C for more than 20 weeks. LAB were the dominant bacteria in the starter culture and produced high acidity from 24h until the end of fermentation. This resulted in decreased pH in plaa-som. L. plantarum IFRPD P15 was dominant as an acidity producer, whereas L. reuteri IFRPD P17 showed an ability to suppress and eliminate pathogenic bacteria such as Escherichia coli within 24h. The use of a single starter culture for plaa-som resulted in incomplete suppression of pathogenic bacteria and elimination of E. coli. Thus, L. plantarum IFRPD P15 and L. reuteri IFRPD P17 have great potential for use as a mixed starter culture in plaa-som fermentation and may possibly help to reduce fermentation time.
20610409	Miniature inverted-repeat transposable elements (MITEs) are dispersed in large numbers within the genomes of eukaryotes although almost all are thought to be inactive. Plants have two major groups of such MITEs: Tourist and Stowaway. Mobile MITEs have been reported previously in rice but no active MITEs have been found in dicotyledons. Here, we provide evidence that Stowaway MITEs can be mobilized in the potato and that one of them causes a change of tuber skin color as an obvious phenotypic variation. In an original red-skinned potato clone, the gene encoding for a flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase, which is involved in purple anthocyanin synthesis, has been inactivated by the insertion of a Stowaway MITE named dTstu1 within the first exon. However, dTstu1 is absent from this gene in a purple somaclonal variant that was obtained as a regenerated plant from a protoplast culture of the red-skinned potato. The color change was attributed to reversion of flavonoid 3',5'-hydroxylase function by removal of dTstu1 from the gene. In this purple variant another specific transposition event has occurred involving a MITE closely related to dTstu1. Instead of being fossil elements, Stowaway MITEs, therefore, still have the ability to become active under particular conditions as represented by tissue culturing.
20610448
20613864	Previous work in Arabidopsis showed that after an ancient tetraploidy event, genes were preferentially removed from one of the two homologs, a process known as fractionation. The mechanism of fractionation is unknown. We sought to determine whether such preferential, or biased, fractionation exists in maize and, if so, whether a specific mechanism could be implicated in this process. We studied the process of fractionation using two recently sequenced grass species: sorghum and maize. The maize lineage has experienced a tetraploidy since its divergence from sorghum approximately 12 million years ago, and fragments of many knocked-out genes retain enough sequence similarity to be easily identifiable. Using sorghum exons as the query sequence, we studied the fate of both orthologous genes in maize following the maize tetraploidy. We show that genes are predominantly lost, not relocated, and that single-gene loss by deletion is the rule. Based on comparisons with orthologous sorghum and rice genes, we also infer that the sequences present before the deletion events were flanked by short direct repeats, a signature of intra-chromosomal recombination. Evidence of this deletion mechanism is found 2.3 times more frequently on one of the maize homologs, consistent with earlier observations of biased fractionation. The over-fractionated homolog is also a greater than 3-fold better target for transposon removal, but does not have an observably higher synonymous base substitution rate, nor could we find differentially placed methylation domains. We conclude that fractionation is indeed biased in maize and that intra-chromosomal or possibly a similar illegitimate recombination is the primary mechanism by which fractionation occurs. The mechanism of intra-chromosomal recombination explains the observed bias in both gene and transposon loss in the maize lineage. The existence of fractionation bias demonstrates that the frequency of deletion is modulated. Among the evolutionary benefits of this deletion/fractionation mechanism is bulk DNA removal and the generation of novel combinations of regulatory sequences and coding regions.
20614775	The heavy intensification of agriculture in East China since the 1980s caused the decrease of lake area and water storage capacity with impediment of regulation, lake eutrophication and frequent floods. Many restoration projects have been conducted. However, the knowledge of biogeochemical factors that drive nutrient cycles during the early stage of restoration is still limited. We studied the effect of the remediation of a patch of near-shore shallow wetland on the northern bank of Chaohu Lake in the Yangtze-Huaihe region, China, which was used as rice paddy for many years, on the behavior of phosphorus. Redox potential (ORP), temperature and dissolved oxygen were monitored in situ from May 2006 to November 2007. Samples of soil pore water were collected during this time for the determination of different forms of iron and phosphorus. ORP showed a clear transition of the wetland soil from an oxidized state in winter to a reduced state in summer. The decrease of ORP correlated with the release of large amounts of Fe and P. The maxima of total dissolved Fe and total dissolved P in the summer of the second year were (13.8 +/- 6.8) mg/L and (0.88 +/- 0.27) mg/L, respectively. It is worth noticing that P concentration far exceeded the critical value of lake eutrophication (0.02 mg/L). The pressure of P release to the adjacent lake during the first two years of wetland restoration from rice fields should be taken into account by environmental policy makers.
20614788	A pot experiment was conducted to examine the activity of antioxidant enzymes, the content of malondialdehyde (MDA), proline and protein, and Cd uptake in different rice cultivars exposed to Cd (0, 1 and 5 mg/kg) in the presence of organic acids and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA). The results showed the increase in activity of dismutase (SOD), contents of proline and protein but a decline in activities of peroxidase (POD) and catalase (CAT), and MDA content for cultivars Xiushui63 and IIyou527. The resistance to Cd was higher in Xiushui63 than that in Iyou527 under the same Cd treatment. Cadmium contents in grain, straw and roots of both cultivars were markedly reduced in the presence of organic acids and EDTA. Grain Cd contents was the highest for plants treated with organic acids, followed by organic acids + 1/2EDTA, and the lowest with EDTA; Cd contents in straw and root were the lowest for plants treated with organic acids, followed by organic acids + 1/2EDTA, and the highest with EDTA treatment when exposed to Cd.
20615111	Blast fungus-induced accumulations of major rice diterpene phytoalexins (PA), momilactones A and B, and phytocassanes A through E were studied, focusing on their biosynthesis and detoxification. In resistant rice, all PA started to accumulate at 2 days postinoculation (dpi), at which hypersensitive reaction (HR)-specific small lesions became visible and increased 500- to 1,000-fold at 4 dpi, while the accumulation was delayed and several times lower in susceptible rice. Expression of PA biosynthetic genes was transiently induced at 2 dpi only in resistant plants, while it was highly induced in both plants at 4 dpi. Fungal growth was severely suppressed in resistant plants by 2 dpi but considerably increased at 3 to 4 dpi in susceptible plants. Momilactone A treatment suppressed fungal growth in planta and in vitro, and the fungus detoxified the PA in vitro. These results indicate that HR-associated rapid PA biosynthesis induces severe restriction of fungus, allowing higher PA accumulation in resistant rice, while in susceptible rice, failure of PA accumulation at the early infection stage allows fungal growth. Detoxification of PA would be a tactic of fungus to invade the host plant, and prompt induction of PA biosynthesis upon HR would be a trait of resistant rice to restrict blast fungus.
20615116	Magnaporthe oryzae is the causal agent of rice blast disease, leading to enormous losses of rice production. Here, we characterized a basic leucine zipper (bZIP) transcription factor, Moatf1, in M. oryzae, a homolog of Schizosaccharomyces pombe ATF/CREB that regulates the oxidative stress response. Moatf1 deletion caused retarded vegetative growth of mycelia, and the Moatf1 mutant exhibited higher sensitivity to hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) than did the wild-type strain. The mutant showed severely reduced activity of extracellular enzymes and transcription level of laccases and peroxidases and exhibited significantly reduced virulence on rice cultivar CO-39. On rice leaf sheath, most of the infectious hyphae of the mutant became swollen and displayed restricted growth in primary infected cells. Defense response was strongly activated in plants infected by the mutant. Diamino benzidine staining revealed an accumulation of H(2)O(2) around Moatf1 mutant appressoria and rice cells with Moatf1 hyphae that was absent in the wild type. Inhibition of the plant NADPH oxidase by diphenyleneiodonium prevented host-derived H(2)O(2) accumulation and restored infectious hyphal growth of the mutant in rice cells. Thus, we conclude that Moatf1 is necessary for full virulence of M. oryzae by regulating the transcription of laccases and peroxidases to impair reactive oxygen species-mediated plant defense.
20615263	Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo) is the causal agent of rice bacterial blight disease. Xoo produces a range of virulence factors, including EPS, extracellular enzyme, iron-chelating siderophores, and type III-secretion dependent effectors, which are collectively essential for virulence. Genetic and genomics evidence suggest that Xoo might use the diffusible signal factor (DSF) type quorum sensing (QS) system to regulate the virulence factor production. However, little is known about the chemical structure of the DSF-like signal(s) produced by Xoo and the factors influencing the signal production. Xoo genome harbours an rpf cluster comprising rpfB, rpfF, rpfC and rpfG. The proteins encoded by these genes are highly homologous to their counterparts in X. campestris pv. campestris (Xcc), suggesting that Xcc and Xoo might use similar mechanisms for DSF biosynthesis and autoregulation. Consistent with in silico analysis, the rpfF mutant was DSF-deficient and the rpfC mutant produced about 25 times higher DSF-like activity than the wild type Xoo strain KACC10331. From the supernatants of rpfC mutant, we purified three compounds showing strong DSF-like activity. Mass spectrometry and NMR analysis revealed that two of them were the previously characterized DSF and BDSF; the third one was a novel unsaturated fatty acid with 2 double bonds and was designated as CDSF in this study. Further analysis showed that all the three DSF-family signals were synthesized via the enzyme RpfF encoded by Xoo2868. DSF and BDSF at a final concentration of 3 microM to the rpfF mutant could fully restore its extracellular xylanase activity and EPS production to the wild type level, but CDSF was less active than DSF and BDSF in induction of EPS and xylanase. DSF and CDSF shared a similar cell density-dependent production time course with the maximum production being detected at 42 h after inoculation, whereas the maximum production of BDSF was observed at 36 h after inoculation. When grown in a rich medium such as YEB, LB, PSA, and NYG, Xoo produced all the three signals with the majority being DSF. Whereas in nutritionally poor XOLN medium Xoo only produced BDSF and DSF but the majority was BDSF. This study demonstrates that Xoo and Xcc share the conserved mechanisms for DSF biosynthesis and autoregulation. Xoo produces DSF, BDSF and CDSF signals in rich media and CDSF is a novel signal in DSF-family with two double bonds. All the three DSF-family signals promote EPS production and xylanase activity in Xoo, but CDSF is less active than its analogues DSF and BDSF. The composition and ratio of the three DSF-family signals produced by Xoo are influenced by the composition of culture media.
20615445	The International Life Sciences Institute Health and Environmental Sciences Institute Protein Allergenicity Technical Committee hosted an international workshop November 16-17, 2009, in Paris, France, with over 60 participants from academia, government, and industry to review and discuss the potential utility of "-omics" technologies for assessing the variability in plant gene, protein, and metabolite expression. The goal of the workshop was to illustrate how a plant's constituent makeup and phenotypic processes can be surveyed analytically. Presentations on the "-omics" techniques (i.e., genomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) highlighted the workshop, and summaries of these presentations are published separately in this supplemental issue. This paper summarizes key messages, as well as the consensus points reached, in a roundtable discussion on eight specific questions posed during the final session of the workshop. The workshop established some common, though not unique, challenges for all "-omics" techniques, and include (a) standardization of separation/extraction and analytical techniques; (b) difficulty in associating environmental impacts (e.g., planting, soil texture, location, climate, stress) with potential alterations in plants at genomic, proteomic, and metabolomic levels; (c) many independent analytical measurements, but few replicates/subjects--poorly defined accuracy and precision; and (d) bias--a lack of hypothesis-driven science. Information on natural plant variation is critical in establishing the utility of new technologies due to the variability in specific analytes that may result from genetic differences (crop genotype), different crop management practices (conventional high input, low input, organic), interaction between genotype and environment, and the use of different breeding methods. For example, variations of several classes of proteins were reported among different soybean, rice, or wheat varieties or varieties grown at different locations. Data on the variability of allergenic proteins are important in defining the risk of potential allergenicity. Once established as a standardized assay, survey approaches such as the "-omics" techniques can be considered in a hypothesis-driven analysis of plants, such as determining unintended effects in genetically modified (GM) crops. However, the analysis should include both the GM and control varieties that have the same breeding history and exposure to the same environmental conditions. Importantly, the biological relevance and safety significance of changes in "-omic" data are still unknown. Furthermore, the current compositional assessment for evaluating the substantial equivalence of GM crops is robust, comprehensive, and a good tool for food safety assessments. The overall consensus of the workshop participants was that many "-omics" techniques are extremely useful in the discovery and research phases of biotechnology, and are valuable for hypothesis generation. However, there are many methodological shortcomings identified with "-omics" approaches, a paucity of reference materials, and a lack of focused strategy for their use that currently make them not conducive for the safety assessment of GM crops.
20615604	The bioavailability of cobalt and its transfer from soil to vegetables and rice were investigated. Among 312 soils collected from vegetable and paddy fields in the suburban areas of some major cities of Fujian Province, southeast China, total soil Co ranged from 3.5 to 21.7 mg kg(-1), indicating a slight accumulation compared with the background value of the province. DTPA extracted 0.1-8.5% of soil total Co. Total and DTPA-extractable Co correlated with soil pH, CEC, free Fe, total Mn, clay and silt content more significantly in paddy soils than in the soils from vegetable fields. The average Co concentrations in the edible parts of vegetables and rice were 15.4 microg kg(-1) and 15.5 microg kg(-1), respectively. The transfer factor (the ratio of plant Co to soil DTPA-extractable Co, TF(DTPA)) ranged from 0.003 to 0.126 with a median of 0.049. The TF(DTPA) decreased in the order of leafy vegetables > fruit vegetables > root vegetables > rice. The TF(DTPA) of all crops decreased with increasing DTPA-extractable Co. Increase in pH, CEC, organic matter, clay, silt, free iron and total Mn limited the soil-to-plant transfer of Co to varying degrees. The transfer of Co from the soils to the edible parts of the crops was lower than that of Zn, Cu and Cd, but higher than that of Pb in the same areas. The concentrations of Co in rice and vegetables in the study areas were considered to be safe for the local residents because of the slight anthropogenic input and the low transfer potential to the edible parts of Co from the soils.
20615762	Performance of microbial fuel cells (MFCs), fabricated using an earthen pot (MFC-1) and a proton exchange membrane (MFC-2), was evaluated while treating rice mill wastewater at feed pH of 8.0, 7.0 and 6.0. A third MFC (MFC-3), fabricated using a proton exchange membrane (PEM), was operated as control without pH adjustment of the acidic raw wastewater. Maximum chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal efficiencies of 96.5% and 92.6% were obtained in MFC-1 and MFC-2, respectively, at feed pH of 8.0. MFC-3 showed maximum COD removal of 87%. The lignin removal was 84%, 79%, and 77% and the phenol removal was 81%, 77%, and 76% in MFC-1, MFC-2, and MFC-3, respectively. Maximum sustainable volumetric power was obtained at feed pH of 8.0, and it was 2.3 W/m(3) and 0.53 W/m(3), with 100 ohm external resistance, in MFC-1 and MFC-2, respectively. The power was lower at lower feed pH. MFC-3 generated lowest volumetric power (0.27 W/m(3)) as compared to MFC-1 and MFC-2. More effective treatment of rice mill wastewater and higher energy recovery was demonstrated by earthen pot MFC as compared to MFC incorporated with PEM.
20616165	The rice pattern recognition receptor (PRR) XA21 confers race-specific resistance in leaf infection by bacterial blight Xathomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), and was shown to be primarily localized to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) when expressed with its native promoter or overexpressed in the protoplast. However, whether the protein is still ER-localization in the intact cell when overexpressed remains to be identified. Here, we showed that XA21, its kinase-dead mutant XA21P(K736EP), and the triple autophosphorylation mutant XA21P(S686A/T688A/S699A) GFP fusions were primarily localized to the plasma membrane (PM) when overexpressed in the intact transgenic rice cell, and also localized to the ER in the transgenic protoplast. The transgenic plants constitutively expressing the wild-type XA21 or its GFP fusion displayed race-specific resistance to Xoo at the adult and seedling stages. XA21 and XA21P(K736EP) could be internalized probably via the SCAMP-positive early endosomal compartment in the protoplast, suggesting that XA21 might be endocytosed to initiate resistance responses during pathogen infection. We also established a root infection system and demonstrated that XA21 also mediated race-specific resistance responses to Xoo in the root. Our current study provides an insight into the nature of the XA21-mediated resistance and a practical approach using the root cell system to further dissect the cellular signaling of the PRR during the rice-Xoo interaction.
20616383	Satellite DNA makes up significant portion of many eukaryotic genomes, yet it is relatively poorly characterized even in extensively sequenced species. This is, in part, due to methodological limitations of traditional methods of satellite repeat analysis, which are based on multiple alignments of monomer sequences. Therefore, we employed an alternative, alignment-free, approach utilizing k-mer frequency statistics, which is in principle more suitable for analyzing large sets of satellite repeat data, including sequence reads from next generation sequencing technologies. k-mer frequency spectra were determined for two sets of rice centromeric satellite CentO sequences, including 454 reads from ChIP-sequencing of CENH3-bound DNA (7.6 Mb) and the whole genome Sanger sequencing reads (5.8 Mb). k-mer frequencies were used to identify the most conserved sequence regions and to reconstruct consensus sequences of complete monomers. Reconstructed consensus sequences as well as the assessment of overall divergence of k-mer spectra revealed high similarity of the two datasets, suggesting that CentO sequences associated with functional centromeres (CENH3-bound) do not significantly differ from the total population of CentO, which includes both centromeric and pericentromeric repeat arrays. On the other hand, considerable differences were revealed when these methods were used for comparison of CentO populations between individual chromosomes of the rice genome assembly, demonstrating preferential sequence homogenization of the clusters within the same chromosome. k-mer frequencies were also successfully used to identify and characterize smRNAs derived from CentO repeats.
20616862	Silene latifolia is a model dioecious plant with morphologically distinguishable XY sex chromosomes. The end of the Xq arm is quite different from that of the Yp arm, although both are located at opposite ends of their respective chromosomes relative to a pseudo-autosomal region. The Xq arm does not seem to originate from the same autosome as the Yp arm. Bacterial artificial chromosome clone #15B12 has an insert containing a 130-kb stretch in which a 313-bp satellite DNA is repeated 420 times. PCR with a single primer revealed that this 130-kb stretch consists of three reversals of the orientation of the satellite DNA. A non-long terminal repeat retroelement and two sequences that share homology with an Oryza sativa RING zinc finger and a putative Arabidopsis thaliana protein, respectively, were found in the sequences that flank the satellite DNA. Fluorescence in situ hybridization carried out using this low-copy region of #15B12 as a probe confirmed that these sequences originated from the X chromosome and that homologous sequences exist at the end of chromosome 7. The region distal to DD44X on the Xq arm is postulated to have recombined with a region containing satellite DNA on chromosome 7 during the process of sex chromosome evolution.
20616874	An array of studies have reported that the spaceflight environment is mutagenic and may induce phenotypic and genetic changes in diverse organisms. We reported recently that in at least some plant species (e.g., rice) the spaceflight environment can be particularly potent in generating heritable epigenetic changes in the form of altered cytosine methylation patterns and activation of transposable elements. To further study the issue of spaceflight-induced genomic instability, and in particular to test whether the incurred genetic and epigenetic changes are connected or independent of each other, we performed the present study. We subjected seeds of the standard laboratory rice (Oryza sativa L.) cultivar Nipponbare to a spaceflight in the spaceship Long March 2 for 18 days. We then investigated the genetic and DNA methylation stabilities of 11 randomly selected plants germinated from the spaceflown seeds by using two kinds of DNA markers, amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and methylation sensitive amplified polymorphism (MSAP). For AFLP, by using 15 primer combinations, we assessed 460 genomic loci and found that the frequencies of genetic changes across the 11 plants ranged from 0.7% to 6.7% with an average frequency of 3.5%. For MSAP, by using 14 primer combinations, we assessed 467 loci and detected the occurrence of four major types of cytosine methylation alterations at the CCGG sites, namely CG or CNG hypomethylation and CG or CNG hypermethylation. Collectively, the frequencies of the two kinds of hypermethylation, CG (1.95%) and CNG (1.44%), are about two times higher than those of the two kinds of hypomethylation, CG (0.76%) and CNG (0.80%), though different plants showed variable frequencies for each type of alteration. Further analysis suggested that both the genetic and cytosine methylation changes manifested apparent mutational bias towards specific genomic regions, but the two kinds of instabilities are independent of each other based on correlation analysis.
20616875	GIGANTEA plays an important role in the control of circadian rhythms and photoperiodic flowering. The GIGANTEA gene has been studied in various species, but not in basal angiosperms. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, no study of the genome organization of a basal angiosperm has yet been published. In this study, we sequenced a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) harboring GIGANTEA from yellow-poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera L.) and compared the genomic organization of this gene in yellow-poplar with that in other species from various angiosperm clades. This is the first report on the gene structure and organization of a large contig in any basal angiosperm species. The BAC clone, covering a region of approximately 122 kb from the yellow-poplar genome, was sequenced and assembled by coupling the 454 pyrosequencing technology with ABI capillary sequencing. In addition to GIGANTEA, the gene RPS18.A (encoding ribosomal protein S18.A) was found in this segment of the genome. We found that gene content and order in this region of the yellow-poplar genome were similar to those in the corresponding region in eudicots but not in Oryza sativa and Sorghum bicolor, implying that clustering of the GIGANTEA and RPS18.A genes is ancestral and separation of the genes occurred after the phylogenetic split of monocots from dicots. Phylogenetic analysis of GIGANTEA amino acid sequences placed yellow-poplar closer to eudicots than to monocots. In addition, evidence for transposition and large insertions and duplications was found, suggesting multiple and complex mechanisms of basal angiosperm genome evolution.
20617077	The main source of carbohydrate in the Korean diet is rice, which is usually served in a rice bowl. This study investigated the impact of a meal plan using smaller rice bowls on dietary energy intake and macronutrient composition in overweight or obese patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus. A total of 67 women with type 2 diabetes were enrolled in our study. We divided these participants into three groups: a normal-weight group (NW; body mass index [BMI] < 23 kg/m(2); n = 17), an overweight group (OW; 23 </= BMI < 25 kg/m(2); n = 24) and an obese group (OB; BMI >/= 25 kg/m(2); n = 26). Three-day dietary records were analyzed for total energy intake (TEI) and macronutrient composition both before enrollment and two weeks after patients received instruction in a dietary plan based on using a small (200 mL) rice bowl. After the intervention, TEI decreased in the OW and OB groups. Decreased carbohydrate (NW, -4 +/- 5%; OW, -4 +/- 5%; OB, -3 +/- 6%) and increased fat intakes were found in all three groups, which complies with Korean Diabetes Association recommendations. The protein proportion of TEI significantly increased only in the OW group. Body weight decreased both in the OW and OB groups. A short-term, small-rice-bowl-based meal plan was effective for body weight control and macronutrient balance in overweight or obese women in Korea with type 2 diabetes.
20619399	Twelve novel 2'-hydroxylfurylchalcones have been synthesized by Claisen-Schmidt condensation with galactosylisomaltol, a reagent prepared from lactose. The procedures are environmentally benign and economical. All the compounds are identified by IR, (1)H NMR and (13)C NMR spectroscopy and by mass spectrometry. Preliminary bioassays indicate that all the title compounds show moderately high herbicidal activities against the height and/or the fresh weight of the seedlings of cucumber, rape, amaranth, wheat, sorghum and Chinese sprangletop at 7.5g of active ingredient per hm(2). However, the compounds exhibit weak fungicidal activities against cucumber powdery mildew, and no activities against rice blast, cucumber grey mould and cucumber downy mildew. The structure-activity relationships are discussed. The present work demonstrates that 2'-hydroxylfurylchalcones could be used as potential lead compounds for further study of novel herbicides.
20619667	The constitutive expression of the rice Osmyb4 gene in Arabidopsis plants gives rise to enhanced abiotic and biotic stress tolerance, probably by activating several stress-inducible pathways. However, the effect of Osmyb4 on stress tolerance likely depends on the genetic background of the transformed species. In this study, we explored the potential of Osmyb4 to enhance the cold and freezing tolerance of Osteospermum ecklonis, an ornamental and perennial plant native to South Africa, because of an increasing interest in growing this species in Europe where winter temperatures are low. Transgenic O. ecklonis plants were obtained through transformation with the Osmyb4 rice gene under the control of the CaMV35S promoter. We examined the phenotypic adaptation of transgenic plants to cold and freezing stress. We also analysed the ability of wild-type and transgenic Osteospermum to accumulate several solutes, such as proline, amino acids and sugars. Using nuclear magnetic resonance, we outlined the metabolic profile of this species under normal growth conditions and under stress for the first time. Indeed, we found that overexpression of Osmyb4 improved the cold and freezing tolerance and produced changes in metabolite accumulation, especially of sugars and proline. Based on our data, it could be of agronomic and economic interest to use this gene to produce Osteospermum plants capable of growing in open field, even during the winter season in climatic zone Z9.
20619887	Environmental water chemistry analysis and microcosm toxicity bioassays (MTB) were performed to assess lethality of herbicides on the mole crab Emerita brasiliensis in a sandy beach affected by a freshwater discharge (Andreoni canal) from rice crops. A 5-yr macrocosm field sampling (MFS) was conducted to evaluate freshwater effects on population abundance. Propanil was only detected at the inner portion of the Andreoni canal (IAC), whereas quinclorac and clomazone were found at the IAC and at the canal mouth (CM). A major propanil metabolite was detected at the CM. Herbicides were undetectable at 13km from the CM. MTB showed an increased susceptibility to propanil with decreasing crab sizes. The MFS showed a drastic decrease in abundance towards the freshwater discharge, concurrently with decreasing salinities. The triad approach that included water analyses, toxicological experiments and long-term field sampling allowed rejecting relationships between herbicide exposure and mole crab lethal effects.
20619914	To decrease the risk of postprandial hyperglycemia and late hypoglycemia in elderly people with diabetes who eat rice porridge for breakfast, we administered 50mg acarbose to 30 elderly people with type 2 diabetes. The results demonstrated that acarbose could prevent the fluctuations in post-breakfast blood glucose levels.
20620691	In ultrasound imaging, various statistical distributions have been proposed to model the first-order statistics of the amplitude of the echo envelope. We present an overview of these distributions based on their compound representation, which comprises three aspects: the modulated distribution (Rice or Nakagami); the modulating distribution (gamma, inverse Gaussian or even generalized inverse Gaussian); and the modulated parameters (the diffuse signal power with or without the coherent signal component or the coherent signal power). This unifying point of view makes the comparison of the various models conceptually easier. In particular, we discuss the implications of the modulated parameters on the mean intensity and the signal-to-noise ratio of the intensity in the case of a vanishing diffuse signal. We conclude that the homodyned K-distribution is the only model among the literature for which the parameters have a physical meaning that is consistent with the limiting case, although the other distributions may fit real data.
20621135	The promoter of an Indian isolate of the pararetrovirus Rice tungro bacilliform virus (RTBV-WB) contains a negative element downstream of the transcription start site (TSS), between nucleotide residues +58 and +195 (Mathur and Dasgupta, 2007). To further characterize the element, we show, by using transient gus reporter gene assays in the cells of onion peel, rice calli and Arabidopsis leaves, that it down-regulates heterologous promoters CaMV35S and Maize ubiquitin. Quantitative measurements of transient GUS activity indicated more than 90% inhibition of reporter gene expression by the negative element. We also show, by reversing the orientation of the element downstream and by placing it in a position upstream to a constitutively expressing RTBV promoter, that the negative element is orientation- and position-independent, pointing towards its activity at the transcriptional and not post-transcriptional level.
20621653	The major food safety risks are not eating a healthy diet, and failure to avoid foodborne illness. Over one billion people in the world suffer from food insecurity and malnutrition. Nutritionally enhanced transgenic crops such as Golden Rice are one potential strategy for reducing malnutrition in the world. Transgenic crops are subjected to a rigorous pre-market safety assessment. The safety of novel proteins and other products is established, and through compositional analysis and animal studies, the safety of any observed changes is evaluated. These studies provide evidence that the new product is as safe as, or safer than, comparable varieties. It must be asked, however, if this rigorous analysis is necessary, because unregulated crops produced by other breeding methods also undergo genetic changes and contain unintended effects. Golden Rice poses infinitesimally small, if any, risk to consumers whilst it has the potential to spare millions of lives each year. However, because it is a transgenic crop, it cannot be deployed without years of expensive pre-market safety review. Paradoxically, if Golden Rice had been produced by less precise conventional methods of breeding, it would already be in the hands of poor farmers. It is concluded that the hyper-precautionary regulatory process applied to transgenic crops works to the extreme disadvantage of the hungry and the poor.
20621980	Arabidopsis microRNA (miRNA) genes (MIR) give rise to 20- to 22-nt miRNAs that are generated predominantly by the type III endoribonuclease Dicer-like 1 (DCL1) but do not require any RNA-dependent RNA Polymerases (RDRs) or RNA Polymerase IV (Pol IV). Here, we identify a novel class of non-conserved MIR genes that give rise to two small RNA species, a 20- to 22-nt species and a 23- to 27-nt species, at the same site. Genetic analysis using small RNA pathway mutants reveals that the 20- to 22-nt small RNAs are typical miRNAs generated by DCL1 and are associated with Argonaute 1 (AGO1). In contrast, the accumulation of the 23- to 27-nt small RNAs from the miRNA-generating sites is dependent on DCL3, RDR2 and Pol IV, components of the typical heterochromatic small interfering RNA (hc-siRNA) pathway. We further demonstrate that these MIR-derived siRNAs associate with AGO4 and direct DNA methylation at some of their target loci in trans. In addition, we find that at the miRNA-generating sites, some conserved canonical MIR genes also produce siRNAs, which also induce DNA methylation at some of their target sites. Our systematic examination of published small RNA deep sequencing datasets of rice and moss suggests that this type of dual functional MIRs exist broadly in plants.
20622435	The development of the protein body in the late stage of seed maturation is poorly understood, because electron-microscopy of mature cereal endosperm is technically difficult. In this study, we attempted to modify the existing method of embedding rice grain in resin. The modified method revealed the ultrastructures of the mature protein body in dry cereal grains.
20623053	Size-resolved bacterial concentrations in atmospheric aerosols sampled by using a six stage viable impactor at rice field, sanitary landfill, and waste incinerator sites were determined. Culture-based and Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) methods were used to identify the airborne bacteria. The culturable bacteria concentration in total suspended particles (TSP) was found to be the highest (848 Colony Forming Unit (CFU)/m(3)) at the sanitary landfill sampling site, while the rice field sampling site has the lowest (125 CFU/m(3)). The closed landfill would be the main source of the observed bacteria concentration at the sanitary landfill. The rice field sampling site was fully covered by rice grain with wetted conditions before harvest and had no significant contribution to the airborne bacteria concentration. This might occur because the dry conditions favor suspension of soil particles and this area had limited personnel and vehicle flow. The respirable fraction calculated by particles less than 3.3 mum was highest (26%) at the sanitary landfill sampling site followed by waste incinerator (19%) and rice field (10%), which showed a lower level of respiratory fraction compared to previous literature values. We identified 58 species in 23 genera of culturable bacteria, and the Microbacterium, Staphylococcus, and Micrococcus were the most abundant genera at the sanitary landfill, waste incinerator, and rice field sites, respectively. An antibiotic resistant test for the above bacteria (Micrococcus sp., Microbacterium sp., and Staphylococcus sp.) showed that the Staphylococcus sp. had the strongest resistance to both antibiotics (25.0% resistance for 32 microg ml(-1) of Chloramphenicol and 62.5% resistance for 4 microg ml(-1) of Gentamicin).
20623158	The specific transport of metal ions, mediated by membrane-localized metal transporters, is of fundamental importance in all eukaryotes. Genome-wide analysis of metal transporters was undertaken, making use of whole genome sequences of the green alga Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, the moss Physcomitrella patens, the lycophyte Selaginella moellendorffii, the monocots rice and sorghum, and the dicots Arabidopsis thaliana, poplar, grapevine, as well as of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A repertoire of 430 metal transporters was found in total across eight photosynthetic plants, as well as in S. cerevisiae. Seventy-two full-length metal transporter genes were identified in the Populus genome alone, which is the largest number of metal transporters genes identified in any single species to date. Diversification of some transporter family gene clusters appears to have occurred in a lineage-specific manner. Expression analysis of Populus metal transporters indicates that some family members show tissue-specific transcript abundance. Taken together, the data provide a picture into the diversification of these important gene families.
20623365	A single segment substitution population of 26 lines and their recipient parent Hua-jing-xian 74 (HJX74) were selected as experimental materials for analyzing the developmental behavior of tiller number in rice. By the unconditional QTL (quantitative trait locus) mapping method, a total number of 14 SSSLs were detected with QTLs controlling rice tiller number. The number of QTLs significantly affecting tiller number and their effect values estimated differed across measuring stages. More QTLs could be detected based on time-dependent measures of different stages. By the conditional QTL mapping method, it is possible to reveal net expression of gene in a time interval. 14 QTLs on tiller number expressed their effects in dynamic patterns of themselves during whole ontogeny. They exhibited mainly negative effects within 7 days after transplanting. During 7-21 days, QTLs were in active status and expressed larger positive effects. In the mid-period of 21-35 days, they had opposite genetic effects to wither tillers. Since then these QTLs expressed positive effects again to cause the appearance of noneffective tillers. The dynamics of QTL effects was in agreement with the actual change of tillers. Mapping QTL combining unconditional with conditional analysis for time-dependent measures is helpful to understand roundly the genetic bases for the development of quantitative traits.
20623432	In this study, it was intended to produce a new fungal amylase by solid-state fermentation and purification and also to determine some of its biochemical properties. It was found that Penicillium brevicompactum had the best enzyme activity according to screening methods with amylase degrading raw starch, and P. brevicompactum was selected as the amylase source. Wheat bran, rice husks, and sunflower oil meal were tested to determine the best solid substrate. Wheat bran was determined as the best of these. The fermentation conditions were optimized for the production of amylase. The optimum fermentation conditions were found to be an initial moisture level for the solid substrate of 55%, moistening agent of 0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer (pH 5.0), incubation period of 7 d, inoculum concentration of 2.5 mL, and incubation temperature at 30 degrees C. Penicillium brevicompactum alpha-amylase was purified 45.98 times by the starch affinity method. The K(m) and V(max) values of alpha-amylase for soluble starch were 5.71 mg/mL and 666.6 U/mL, respectively. This amylase showed maximum activity at between 30 and 50 degrees C and at pH 5.0. Initial enzyme activity was kept at 100% after incubation at 30 degrees C for 45 min. Enzyme was stable in the pH range of 4.0-5.0. This enzyme was activated by Mn(2+), Cu(2+), and Na(+) ions, and was inhibited by Mg(2+), K(+), Fe(3+), and ethylenediamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA). The molecular mass of P. brevicompactum alpha-amylase was found to be 32.5 kD by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis.
20623488	The potential energy profiles for the fragmentations that lead to [C(5)H(5)O](+) and [C(4)H(6)](+*) ions from the molecular ions [C(5)H(6)O](+*) of E-2,4-pentadienal were obtained from calculations at the UB3LYP/6-311G + + (3df,3pd)//UB3LYP/6-31G(d,p) level of theory. Kinetic barriers and harmonic frequencies obtained by the density functional method were then employed in Rice-Ramsperger-Kassel-Marcus calculations of individual rate coefficients for a large number of reaction steps. The pre-equilibrium and rate-controlling step approximations were applied to different regions of the complex potential energy surface, allowing the overall rate of decomposition to be calculated and discriminated between three rival pathways: C-H bond cleavage, decarbonylation and cyclization. These processes should have to compete for an equilibrated mixture of four conformers of the E-2,4-pentadienal ions. The direct dissociation, however, can only become important in the high-energy regime. In contrast, loss of CO and cyclization are observable processes in the metastable kinetic window. The former involves a slow 1,2-hydrogen shift from the carbonyl group that is immediately followed by the formation of an ion-neutral complex which, in turn, decomposes rapidly to the s-trans-1,3-butadiene ion [C(4)H(6)](+*). The predominating metastable channel is the second one, that is, a multi-step ring closure which starts with a rate-limiting cis-trans isomerization. This process yields a mixture of interconverting pyran ions that dissociates to the pyrylium ions [C(5)H(5)O](+). These results can be used to rationalize the CID mass spectrum of E-2,4-pentadienal in a low-energy regime.
20623702	Beer in batter formulation or beer-battering has been popular in fried food recipes, but the topic is rarely reported in scientific journals or the claims substantiated with reliable studies. In this research, we prepared and characterized rice and wheat batters with and without using beer to replace water in the formulation. We studied and provided data on the effect of beer on the frying properties of batter and its coated foods. With beer in the formulation, oil uptake of fried batters generally increased by up to 18%. Instrumental textural analyses indicate that beer-battering treatment generally decreased the hardness, increased the fracturability and improved the crispness of the fried batters. Sensory evaluations show similar trends, though to a lesser extent, that fish and onion rings coated with batters were softer but crispier with beer than without. In general, beer-battering caused an increase in the oil uptake of the batter during frying. It also made the texture of fried batters slightly softer and crispier. The effects are more pronounced for rice batters than wheat batters.
20623876	A pot experiment was conducted in greenhouse in two types of soils, Hydragric Acrisols (Ac) and Gleyi-Stagnic Anthrosols (An). Three treatments as control and the additions of 1% and 2% organic fertilizer were designed in each type of soil. The objective of this study was to evaluate the accumulation abilities of hexachlorobenzene (HCB) and its predominant metabolite of pentachlorobenzene (PeCB) by rice roots, and to compare the correlation between HCB or PeCB concentrations in rice roots and in soils extracted by four extraction solvents (hexane/acetone = 3/1(V/V), ethanol, hexane, water) to evaluate the bioavailability of HCB and PeCB to rice roots. The results showed that the mean concentrations of HCB in rice roots for Ac and An were 364.1 and 306.0 ng/g, respectively, while PeCB were 12.7 and 28.7 ng/g, respectively, which was due to the higher degradation rates of HCB in An than in Ac. Both the applications of 1% and 2% organic fertilizer inhibited HCB degradation, so as to decrease PeCB concentrations in rice roots either in Ac or An. The orders of correlation coefficient of both HCB and PeCB concentrations in rice roots and in soils extracted by four extraction solvents were ethanol > hexane/acetone > hexane > water, which indicated that ethanol was the best extraction solvent of soils to evaluate the bioavailability of HCB and PeCB to rice roots. Only the HCB concentrations in soils extracted by ethanol were significantly positive correlated with the HCB concentrations in rice roots. And the PeCB concentrations in soils extracted by all solvents except for water were significantly positive correlated with the PeCB concentrations in rice roots. Our results suggested that it was feasible to evaluate the bioavailability of HCB and PeCB to rice roots using accelerated solvent extraction by choosing proper extraction solvent.
20623880	Populations and activities of nitrifier can be significantly influenced by air-drying. A 35-day incubation study was conducted to determine the effects of air-drying on nitrification potential of four acid subtropical soils after applying 0 and 150 mg x kg(-1) of ammonium bicarbonate. Four soils, designated QR, QU, SR and SU, derived from Quaternary red earth and Tertiary red sandstone, were collected from rice and upland field. The results indicated that, without ammonium input, the responses of nitrification in upland soils to air-drying were insignificant (p > 0.05). The nitrification ratio in fresh and air-dried samples of soil QU were 48% and 54% respectively, and 76% and 78% for SU; however, air-drying did have a significant effect on the nitrification in paddy soils (p < 0.01). Nitrification ratios were 40% and 89% for fresh and air-dried samples of QR, 76% and 94% for SR, and there was a lag-phase of the nitrification in air-dried paddy soils. Ammonium input would accelerate nitrification and make the nitrification ratios of fresh samples significantly higher than those of air-dried ones. In generally, land-use type presents a significant impact on the response of nitrification to air-drying effect, and there was a significant interaction of land-use type and fertilization.
20624450	Lactoferrin, the main iron-binding protein of milk, has biological activities that are essential for the newborn and are beneficial for adults. Given this beneficial effect, there is broad interest in exogenous sources of lactoferrin in human nutrition. Consequently, several transgenic approaches to produce lactoferrin have been achieved. However, the activity of heterologous lactoferrin cannot be assumed to identically mimic that of the homologous protein. Human lactoferrin obtained from yeast, transgenic cows, and rice has met the criteria of structural similarity, high yield, and ease of protein isolation. Human lactoferrin from Aspergillus awamori has been mainly directed to therapeutic uses with advanced phases of clinical trials currently in progress. In contrast, human lactoferrin produced in transgenic cows and rice brings the clear advantage of origins compatible with use in foods, although the approval for these applications is still in process.
20624672	Dietary habits have been associated with the prevalence of the metabolic syndrome and limited data are available in this field for individuals with impaired glucose tolerance. This study focused on the association between major dietary patterns and prevalence of the metabolic syndrome in individuals with impaired glucose tolerance. This cross-sectional study was done in 425 subjects 35 to 55 y of age. Dietary data were collected using a food-frequency questionnaire. Blood pressure, waist circumference, glucose, triacylglycerols, and high-density lipoprotein cholesterol were measured and metabolic syndrome was defined based on Adult Treatment Panel III guidelines. Five major dietary patterns were found: a western pattern (high in sweets, butter, soda, mayonnaise, sugar, cookies, tail of a lamb, hydrogenated fat, and eggs), a prudent pattern (high in fish, peas, honey, nuts, juice, dry fruits, vegetable oil, liver and organic meat, and coconuts and low in hydrogenated fat and non-leafy vegetables), a vegetarian pattern (high in potatoes, legumes, fruits rich in vitamin C, rice, green leafy vegetables, and fruits rich in vitamin A), a high-fat dairy pattern (high in high-fat yogurt and high-fat milk and low in low-fat yogurt, peas, and bread), and a chicken and plant pattern (high in chicken, fruits rich in vitamin A, green leafy vegetables, and mayonnaise and low in beef, liver, and organic meat). After adjusting for confounding variables, the western pattern was associated with greater odds of having increased triacylglycerol (odds ratio 1.76, 95% confidence interval 1.01-3.07) and blood pressure (odds ratio 2.62, 95% confidence interval 1.32-5.23). The prudent pattern was positively associated with a prevalence of low high-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels (odds ratio 0.55, 95% confidence interval 0.31-0.96). The vegetarian dietary pattern was inversely associated with a risk of an abnormal fasting blood glucose level (odds ratio 2.26, 95% confidence interval 1.25-4.06). Major dietary patterns were significantly associated with the risk of metabolic syndrome.
20625715	Although ethanol and osmotic stress affect the vacuolar morphology of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, little information is available about changes in vacuolar morphology during the processes of wine making and Japanese sake (rice wine) brewing. Here, we elucidated changes in the morphology of yeast vacuoles using Zrc1p-GFP, a vacuolar membrane protein, so as to better understand yeast physiology during the brewing process. Wine yeast cells (OC-2 and EC1118) contained highly fragmented vacuoles in the sake mash (moromi) as well as in the grape must. Although sake yeast cells (Kyokai no. 9 and no. 10) also contained highly fragmented vacuoles during the wine-making process, they showed quite a distinct vacuolar morphology during sake brewing. Since the environment surrounding sake yeast cells in the sake mash did not differ much from that surrounding wine yeast cells, the difference in vacuolar morphology during sake brewing between wine yeast and sake yeast was likely caused by innate characters.
20625734	The early stage of plant-rhizobacteria interaction, affected by plant root exudates and plant-rhizobacteria surface contact, is considered to be critical for plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria colonizing plant roots and initiating the beneficial effects on plant growth. However, little is known about the mechanisms of plant-rhizobacteria surface contact involved in early stage of plant-rhizobacteria interaction. In order to reveal the molecular mechanisms of the surface contact, a rhizobacterium Bacillus amyloliquefaciens B55 was interacted with plant roots of rice R109 and used to perform a cDNA-based suppression-subtractive hybridization. Seven differentially expressed DNA fragments were identified. Except for the two fragments showing no matches to any known sequences in the Genbank, the other five fragments were found to have high homologies with the genes encoding 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase E1 component OdhA, aspartate ammonia-lyase AnsB, and hypothetical protein proposed to be involved in surface adhesion, acetolactate decarboxylase AlsD, and DNA mismatch repair protein MutL, respectively. The induced RNA expression levels of two putative genes ansB and odhA and an unmatched DNA fragment BD33 were verified by RT-PCR analysis.
20626286	Rice blast is one of the most devastating diseases affecting rice production worldwide. One japonica landrace, Heikezijing, from the Taihu Lake area in China, has been reported to be highly resistant to most of the rice blast isolates collected from China and Japan. To effectively dissect the inheritance of its resistance, a population of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) (F(2:8)) was constructed from a cross between Heikezijing and Suyunuo, a blast-susceptible cultivar. Nineteen blast isolates from China and Japan were inoculated into 166 RILs and their parents, and 22 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) conferring resistance to these isolates were identified and mapped onto rice chromosomes 1, 7, 9, 11, and 12. Most of the QTLs conferred race-specific resistance to blast. Some QTLs, such as qtl11-5-5, conferred resistance to two or more isolates. One blast-resistant gene cluster, including qtl11-2-2, qtl11-3-1, qtl11-4-1, qtl11-5-5, qtl11-6-1, qtl11-7-5, qtl11-8-2, qtl11-9-2, qtl11-10-4, and qtl11-11-1, was found on the long arm of chromosome 11 in the japonica landrace. These loci offered effective resistance toward as many as 17 isolates, including 16 isolates from seven Chinese race groups and 1 isolate from Japan. The results from this study suggest that the Heikezijing landrace involves a number of genes that are associated with broad-spectrum resistance to rice blast.
20626650	Rapid progress in comparative genomics among the grasses has revealed similar gene content and order despite exceptional differences in chromosome size and number. Large- and small-scale genomic variations are of particular interest, especially among cultivated and wild species, as they encode rapidly evolving features that may be important in adaptation to particular environments. We present a genome-wide study of intermediate-sized structural variation (SV) among rice (Oryza sativa) and three of its closest relatives in the genus Oryza (Oryza nivara, Oryza rufipogon and Oryza glaberrima). We computationally identified regional expansions, contractions and inversions in the Oryza species genomes relative to O. sativa by combining data from paired-end clone alignments to the O. sativa reference genome and physical maps. A subset of the computational predictions was validated using a new approach for BAC size determination. The result was a confirmed catalog of 674 expansions (25-38 Mb) and 611 (4-19 Mb) contractions, and 140 putative inversions (14-19 Mb) between the three Oryza species and O. sativa. In the expanded regions unique to O. sativa we found enrichment in transposable elements (TEs): long terminal repeats (LTRs) were randomly located across the chromosomes, and their insertion times corresponded to the date of the A genome radiation. Also, rice-expanded regions contained an over-representation of single-copy genes related to defense factors in the environment. This catalog of confirmed SV in reference to O. sativa provides an entry point for future research in genome evolution, speciation, domestication and novel gene discovery.
20626655	Analyses of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for expression levels (eQTLs) of genes reveal a genetic relationship between expression variation and the regulator, thus unlocking information for identifying the regulatory network. Oligo-nucleotide expression microarrays hybridized with RNA can simultaneously provide data for molecular markers and transcript abundance. In this study, we used an Affymetrix GeneChip Rice Genome Array to analyze eQTLs in rice shoots at 72 h after germination from 110 recombinant inbred lines (RILs) derived from a cross between Zhenshan 97 and Minghui 63. In total, 1632 single-feature polymorphisms (SFPs) plus 23 PCR markers were identified and placed into 601 recombinant bins, spanning 1459 cM in length, which were used as markers to genotype the RILs. We obtained 16,372 expression traits (e-traits) each with at least one eQTL, resulting in 26,051 eQTLs in total, including both cis- and trans-eQTLs. We also identified 171 eQTL hot spots in the rice genome, each of which controls transcript variations of many e-traits. Gene ontology analysis revealed an enrichment of certain functional categories of genes in some of the eQTL hot spots. In particular, eQTLs for e-traits involving the DNA metabolic process was significantly enriched in several eQTL hot spots on chromosomes 3, 5 and 10. Several e-traits co-localizing with cis-eQTLs showed significant correlations with hundreds of e-traits, indicating possible co-regulation. We also detected correlations between QTLs for shoot dry weight and eQTLs, revealing possible candidate genes for the trait. These results provided clues for the identification and characterization of the regulatory network in the whole genome at the transcriptional level.
20626894	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play a critical role in post-transcriptional gene regulation and have been shown to control many genes involved in various biological and metabolic processes. There have been extensive studies to discover miRNAs and analyze their functions in model plant species, such as Arabidopsis and rice. Deep sequencing technologies have facilitated identification of species-specific or lowly expressed as well as conserved or highly expressed miRNAs in plants. In this research, we used Solexa sequencing to discover new microRNAs in trifoliate orange (Citrus trifoliata) which is an important rootstock of citrus. A total of 13,106,753 reads representing 4,876,395 distinct sequences were obtained from a short RNA library generated from small RNA extracted from C. trifoliata flower and fruit tissues. Based on sequence similarity and hairpin structure prediction, we found that 156,639 reads representing 63 sequences from 42 highly conserved miRNA families, have perfect matches to known miRNAs. We also identified 10 novel miRNA candidates whose precursors were all potentially generated from citrus ESTs. In addition, five miRNA* sequences were also sequenced. These sequences had not been earlier described in other plant species and accumulation of the 10 novel miRNAs were confirmed by qRT-PCR analysis. Potential target genes were predicted for most conserved and novel miRNAs. Moreover, four target genes including one encoding IRX12 copper ion binding/oxidoreductase and three genes encoding NB-LRR disease resistance protein have been experimentally verified by detection of the miRNA-mediated mRNA cleavage in C. trifoliata. Deep sequencing of short RNAs from C. trifoliata flowers and fruits identified 10 new potential miRNAs and 42 highly conserved miRNA families, indicating that specific miRNAs exist in C. trifoliata. These results show that regulatory miRNAs exist in agronomically important trifoliate orange and may play an important role in citrus growth, development, and response to disease.
20626916	In rice, the GW2 gene, found on chromosome 2, controls grain width and weight. Two homologs of this gene, ZmGW2-CHR4 and ZmGW2-CHR5, have been found in maize. In this study, we investigated the relationship, evolutionary fate and putative function of these two maize genes. The two genes are located on duplicated maize chromosomal regions that show co-orthologous relationships with the rice region containing GW2. ZmGW2-CHR5 is more closely related to the sorghum counterpart than to ZmGW2-CHR4. Sequence comparisons between the two genes in eight diverse maize inbred lines revealed that the functional protein domain of both genes is completely conserved, with no non-synonymous polymorphisms identified. This suggests that both genes may have conserved functions, a hypothesis that was further confirmed through linkage, association, and expression analyses. Linkage analysis showed that ZmGW2-CHR4 is located within a consistent quantitative trait locus (QTL) for one-hundred kernel weight (HKW). Association analysis with a diverse panel of 121 maize inbred lines identified one single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) in the promoter region of ZmGW2-CHR4 that was significantly associated with kernel width (KW) and HKW across all three field experiments examined in this study. SNPs or insertion/deletion polymorphisms (InDels) in other regions of ZmGW2-CHR4 and ZmGW2-CHR5 were also found to be significantly associated with at least one of the four yield-related traits (kernel length (KL), kernel thickness (KT), KW and HKW). None of the polymorphisms in either maize gene are similar to each other or to the 1 bp InDel causing phenotypic variation in rice. Expression levels of both maize genes vary over ear and kernel developmental stages, and the expression level of ZmGW2-CHR4 is significantly negatively correlated with KW. The sequence, linkage, association and expression analyses collectively showed that the two maize genes represent chromosomal duplicates, both of which function to control some of the phenotypic variation for kernel size and weight in maize, as does their counterpart in rice. However, the different polymorphisms identified in the two maize genes and in the rice gene indicate that they may cause phenotypic variation through different mechanisms.
20626918	Schistosomiasis infection, contracted through contact with contaminated water, is a global public health concern. In this paper we analyze data from a retrospective study reporting water contact and schistosomiasis infection status among 1011 individuals in rural China. We present semi-parametric methods for identifying risk factors through a comparison of three analysis approaches: a prediction-focused machine learning algorithm, a simple main-effects multivariable regression, and a semi-parametric variable importance (VI) estimate inspired by a causal population intervention parameter. The multivariable regression found only tool washing to be associated with the outcome, with a relative risk of 1.03 and a 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.01-1.05. Three types of water contact were found to be associated with the outcome in the semi-parametric VI analysis: July water contact (VI estimate 0.16, 95% CI 0.11-0.22), water contact from tool washing (VI estimate 0.88, 95% CI 0.80-0.97), and water contact from rice planting (VI estimate 0.71, 95% CI 0.53-0.96). The July VI result, in particular, indicated a strong association with infection status - its causal interpretation implies that eliminating water contact in July would reduce the prevalence of schistosomiasis in our study population by 84%, or from 0.3 to 0.05 (95% CI 78%-89%). The July VI estimate suggests possible within-season variability in schistosomiasis infection risk, an association not detected by the regression analysis. Though there are many limitations to this study that temper the potential for causal interpretations, if a high-risk time period could be detected in something close to real time, new prevention options would be opened. Most importantly, we emphasize that traditional regression approaches are usually based on arbitrary pre-specified models, making their parameters difficult to interpret in the context of real-world applications. Our results support the practical application of analysis approaches that, in contrast, do not require arbitrary model pre-specification, estimate parameters that have simple public health interpretations, and apply inference that considers model selection as a source of variation.
20627803	To cause rice blast disease, the fungus Magnaporthe oryzae produces biotrophic invasive hyphae that secrete effectors at the host-pathogen interface. Effectors facilitate disease development, but some (avirulence effectors) also trigger the host's resistance gene-mediated hypersensitive response and block disease. The number of cloned M. oryzae avirulence effector genes has recently doubled, largely based on resequencing with a Japanese field isolate and association of avirulence activity with presence/absence polymorphisms in novel genes for secreted proteins. Effectors secreted by hyphae in rice cells accumulate in biotrophic interfacial complexes, and this property correlates with their translocation across plasma membrane into the rice cytoplasm. Interestingly, the translocated effectors moved into surrounding uninvaded cells, suggesting that effectors prepare host cells before the fungus enters them.
20627892	The functional complexity of the rice transcriptome is not yet fully elucidated, despite many studies having reported the use of DNA microarrays. Next-generation DNA sequencing technologies provide a powerful approach for mapping and quantifying the transcriptome, termed RNA sequencing (RNA-seq). In this study, we applied RNA-seq to globally sample transcripts of the cultivated rice Oryza sativa indica and japonica subspecies for resolving the whole-genome transcription profiles. We identified 15,708 novel transcriptional active regions (nTARs), of which 51.7% have no homolog to public protein data and >63% are putative single-exon transcripts, which are highly different from protein-coding genes (<20%). We found that approximately 48% of rice genes show alternative splicing patterns, a percentage considerably higher than previous estimations. On the basis of the available rice gene models, 83.1% (46,472 genes) of the current rice gene models were validated by RNA-seq, and 6228 genes were identified to be extended at the 5' and/or 3' ends by at least 50 bp. Comparative transcriptome analysis demonstrated that 3464 genes exhibited differential expression patterns. The ratio of SNPs with nonsynonymous/synonymous mutations was nearly 1:1.06. In total, we interrogated and compared transcriptomes of the two rice subspecies to reveal the overall transcriptional landscape at maximal resolution.
20627947	The rice esp2 mutation was previously characterized by the abnormal accumulation of elevated levels of proglutelin and the absence of an endosperm-specific protein disulfide isomerase like (PDIL1-1). Here we show that Esp2 is the structural gene for PDIL1-1 and that this lumenal chaperone is asymmetrically distributed within the cortical endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and largely restricted to the cisternal ER. Temporal studies indicate that PDIL1-1 is essential for the maturation of proglutelin only when its rate of synthesis significantly exceeds its export from the ER, a condition resulting in its build up in the ER lumen and the induction of ER quality control processes which lower glutelin levels as well as those of the other storage proteins. As proglutelin is initially synthesized on the cisternal ER, its deposition within prolamine protein bodies in esp2 suggests that PDIL1-1 helps retain proglutelin in the cisternal ER lumen until it attains competence for ER export and, thereby, indirectly preventing heterotypic interactions with prolamine polypeptides.
20628448	Smallholder farming systems in sub-Saharan Africa have undergone changes in land use, productivity and sustainability. Understanding of the drivers that have led to changes in land use in these systems and factors that influence the systems' sustainability is useful to guide appropriate targeting of intervention strategies for improvement. We studied low input Teso farming systems in eastern Uganda from 1960 to 2001 in a place-based analysis combined with a comparative analysis of similar low input systems in southern Mali. This study showed that policy-institutional factors next to population growth have driven land use changes in the Teso systems, and that nutrient balances of farm households are useful indicators to identify their sustainability. During the period of analysis, the fraction of land under cultivation increased from 46 to 78%, and communal grazing lands nearly completely disappeared. Cropping diversified over time; cassava overtook cotton and millet in importance, and rice emerged as an alternative cash crop. Impacts of political instability, such as the collapse of cotton marketing and land management institutions, of communal labour arrangements and aggravation of cattle rustling were linked to the changes. Crop productivity in the farming systems is poor and nutrient balances differed between farm types. Balances of N, P and K were all positive for larger farms (LF) that had more cattle and derived a larger proportion of their income from off-farm activities, whereas on the medium farms (MF), small farms with cattle (SF1) and without cattle (SF2) balances were mostly negative. Sustainability of the farming system is driven by livestock, crop production, labour and access to off-farm income. Building private public partnerships around market-oriented crops can be an entry point for encouraging investment in use of external nutrient inputs to boost productivity in such African farming systems. However, intervention strategies should recognise the diversity and heterogeneity between farms to ensure efficient use of these external inputs.
20628455	In this letter, we report on the obtention of hafnium oxide (HfO(2)) nanostructures by the microwave-hydrothermal method. These nanostructures were analyzed by X-ray diffraction (XRD), field-emission gum scanning electron microscopy (FEG-SEM), transmission electron microscopy (TEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectrometry (EDXS), ultraviolet-visible (UV-vis) spectroscopy, and photoluminescence (PL) measurements. XRD patterns confirmed that this material crystallizes in a monoclinic structure. FEG-SEM and TEM micrographs indicated that the rice-like morphologies were formed due to an increase in the effective collisions between the nanoparticles during the MH processing. The EDXS spectrum was used to verify the chemical compositional of this oxide. UV-vis spectrum revealed that this material have an indirect optical band gap. When excited with 488 nm wavelength at room temperature, the HfO(2) nanostructures exhibited only one broad PL band with a maximum at around 548 nm (green emission).
20628996	Fifteen novel derivatives of D-DIBOA, including aromatic ring modifications and the addition of side chains in positions C-2 and N-4, had previously been synthesised and their phytotoxicity on standard target species (STS) evaluated. This strategy combined steric, electronic, solubility and lipophilicity requirements to achieve the maximum phytotoxic activity. An evaluation of the bioactivity of these compounds on the systems Oryza sativa-Echinochloa crus-galli and Triticum aestivum-Avena fatua is reported here. All compounds showed inhibition profiles on the two species Echinochloa crus-galli (L.) Beauv. and Avena fatua L. The most marked effects were caused by 6F-4Pr-D-DIBOA, 6F-4Val-D-DIBOA, 6Cl-4Pr-D-DIBOA and 6Cl-4Val-D-DIBOA. The IC(50) values for the systems Echinochloa crus-galli-Oryza sativa and Avena fatua-Triticum aestivum for all compounds were compared. The compound that showed the greatest selectivity for the system Echinochloa crus-galli-Oryza sativa was 8Cl-4Pr-D-DIBOA, which was 15 times more selective than the commercial herbicide propanil (Cotanil-35). With regard to the system Avena fatua-Triticum aestivum, the compounds that showed the highest selectivities were 8Cl-4Val-D-DIBOA and 6F-4Pr-D-DIBOA. The results obtained for 6F-4Pr-D-DIBOA are of great interest because of the high phytotoxicity to Avena fatua (IC(50) = 6 µM, r(2) = 0.9616). The in vitro phytotoxicity profiles and selectivities shown by the compounds described here make them candidates for higher-level studies. 8Cl-4Pr-D-DIBOA for the system Echinochloa crus-galli-Oryza sativa and 6F-4Pr-D-DIBOA for Avena fatua-Triticum aestivum were the most interesting compounds.
20629878	Dietary starches can be classified into 3 major fractions according to in vitro digestibility as rapidly digestible (RDS), slowly digestible (SDS), and resistant starch (RS). Literature indicates that SDS and/or RS have significant implications on human health, particularly glucose metabolism, diabetes management, colon cancer prevention, mental performance, and satiety. In this study, the nutritionally important starch fractions (RDS, SDS, and RS) in cooked rice were assayed in vitro, making use of 16 cultivars grown in 5 southern U.S. rice growing locations (Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, and Texas). RDS, SDS, and RS were 52.4% to 69.4%, 10.3% to 26.6%, and 1.2% to 9.0%, respectively, of cooked rice dry weight. Cultivar, location, and cultivar-by-location interaction contributed to the variations in RDS, SDS, and RS contents. Means pooled across locations indicated that SDS was higher for the Louisiana samples than those from Texas, whereas RS was higher for the Texas samples than those from Arkansas, Louisiana, and Mississippi. Some cultivars were identified to possess high levels of RS (for example, Bowman and Rondo) or SDS (for example, Dixiebelle and Tesanai-2) and were also stable across growing locations. Apparent amylose content correlated positively with RS (n = 80, r = 0.54, P <or= 0.001), negatively with RDS (n = 80, r =-0.29, P <or= 0.05), and insignificantly with SDS (n = 80, r = 0.21, P > 0.05). RS and SDS were not collinear (n = 80, r =or-0.18, P > 0.05); it does not follow that a cultivar high in RS will also be high in SDS, and vice versa. The observed differences in RDS, SDS, and RS among the samples are indicative of wide genetic diversity in rice.
20629899	Monascus is one of the traditional fermentation fungi and has been used in many kinds of food for thousands of years. Although Monascus-fermented red mold rice performs cholesterol-lowering effects, blood pressure-lowing effects, and antioxidant effects, another metabolite, nephrotoxic and hepatotoxic citrinin, causes the concerns for safety. Various citrinin concentrations (1, 2, 10, 20, and 200 ppm) in the red mold rice are, respectively, estimated for safe use in animal tests. According to the results of serum biochemistry assays of liver and kidney in each group, citrinin did not reveal any nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. Furthermore, the results of histopathological slices of liver and kidney in each group did not show any significant differences from control histopathological findings. As a result, we presume that citrinin concentrations in Monascus-fermented products within 200 ppm will not affect the functions of liver and kidney or cause any nephrotoxicity and hepatotoxicity. According to safety factor, it is proposed that 2 ppm citrinin in Monascus-fermented products may be a safe concentration.
20630103	NAC (NAM, ATAF1/2 and CUC2) domain proteins are plant-specific transcriptional factors known to play diverse roles in various plant developmental processes. NAC transcription factors comprise of a large gene family represented by more than 100 members in Arabidopsis, rice and soybean etc. Recently, a preliminary phylogenetic analysis was reported for NAC gene family from 11 plant species. However, no comprehensive study incorporating phylogeny, chromosomal location, gene structure, conserved motifs, and expression profiling analysis has been presented thus far for the model tree species Populus. In the present study, a comprehensive analysis of NAC gene family in Populus was performed. A total of 163 full-length NAC genes were identified in Populus, and they were phylogenetically clustered into 18 distinct subfamilies. The gene structure and motif compositions were considerably conserved among the subfamilies. The distributions of 120 Populus NAC genes were non-random across the 19 linkage groups (LGs), and 87 genes (73%) were preferentially retained duplicates that located in both duplicated regions. The majority of NACs showed specific temporal and spatial expression patterns based on EST frequency and microarray data analyses. However, the expression patterns of a majority of duplicate genes were partially redundant, suggesting the occurrence of subfunctionalization during subsequent evolutionary process. Furthermore, quantitative real-time RT-PCR (RT-qPCR) was performed to confirm the tissue-specific expression patterns of 25 NAC genes. Based on the genomic organizations, we can conclude that segmental duplications contribute significantly to the expansion of Populus NAC gene family. The comprehensive expression profiles analysis provides first insights into the functional divergence among members in NAC gene family. In addition, the high divergence rate of expression patterns after segmental duplications indicates that NAC genes in Populus are likewise to have been retained by substantial subfunctionalization. Taken together, our results presented here would be helpful in laying the foundation for functional characterization of NAC gene family and further gaining an understanding of the structure-function relationship between these family members.
20630547	To determine the prevalence of food contamination in the fast food restaurants operating in Benin City, Edo State, Nigeria. Three hundred and fifty food handlers were selected by means of a systematic sampling method and interviewed using a semi-structured researcher-administered questionnaire. One hundred and sixty-eight samples of ready-to-eat food and 45 stool samples were collected and analysed in the laboratory for the presence of bacteria (excluding anaerobic bacteria). More than half of the respondents (n=184, 52.6%) had no training in food hygiene and safety. Only 149 (42.6%) respondents knew that micro-organisms can contaminate food. The prevalence of food contamination in the fast food restaurants was found to be 37.5%. Bacillus cereus and Staphylococcus aureus were the most commonly isolated bacteria, while salad, meat pie and fried rice were the most commonly contaminated foods. There is need for the relevant local authorities to ensure that the food sold to consumers in fast food restaurants is safe, wholesome and fit for human consumption in order to prevent outbreaks of food-borne illnesses. Also, there should be regular training/retraining and health education of these food handlers in all aspects of food hygiene and safety.
20630733	A bacterial strain designated as BPM3 isolated from mud of a natural hot water spring of Nambar Wild Life Sanctuary, Assam, India, strongly inhibited growth of phytopathogenic fungi (Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceri, F. semitectum, Magnaporthe grisea and Rhizoctonia oryzae) and gram-positive bacterium (Staphylococcus aureus). The maximum growth and antagonistic activity was recorded at 30°C, pH 8.5 when starch and peptone were amended as carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively. In greenhouse experiment, this bacterium (BPM3) suppressed blast disease of rice by 30-67% and protected the weight loss by 35-56.5%. The maximum disease protection (67%) and weight loss protection (56.5%) were recorded when the bacterium was applied before 2 days of the pathogen inoculation. Antifungal and antibacterial compounds were isolated from the bacterium which also inhibited the growth of these targeted pathogens. The compounds were purified and on spectroscopic analysis of a purified fraction having R(f) 0.22 which showed strong antifungal and antibacterial activity indicated the presence of C-H, carbonyl group, dimethyl group, -CH(2) and methyl group. The bacterium was characterized by morphological, biochemical and molecular approaches and confirmed that the strain BPM3 is Brevibacillus laterosporus.
20630883	Recent studies have linked climatic and social instabilities in ancient China; the underlying causal mechanisms have, however, often not been quantitatively assessed. Here, using historical records and palaeoclimatic reconstructions during AD 10-1900, we demonstrate that war frequency, price of rice, locust plague, drought frequency, flood frequency and temperature in China show two predominant periodic bands around 160 and 320 years where they interact significantly with each other. Temperature cooling shows direct positive association with the frequency of external aggression war to the Chinese dynasties mostly from the northern pastoral nomadic societies, and indirect positive association with the frequency of internal war within the Chinese dynasties through drought and locust plagues. The collapses of the agricultural dynasties of the Han, Tang, Song and Ming are more closely associated with low temperature. Our study suggests that food production during the last two millennia has been more unstable during cooler periods, resulting in more social conflicts owing to rebellions within the dynasties or/and southward aggressions from northern pastoral nomadic societies in ancient China.
20631318	Rice (Oryza sativa) production relies strongly on nitrogen (N) fertilization with urea, but the proteins involved in rice urea metabolism have not yet been characterized. Coding sequences for rice arginase, urease, and the urease accessory proteins D (UreD), F (UreF), and G (UreG) involved in urease activation were identified and cloned. The functionality of urease and the urease accessory proteins was demonstrated by complementing corresponding Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) mutants and by multiple transient coexpression of the rice proteins in Nicotiana benthamiana. Secondary structure models of rice (plant) UreD and UreF proteins revealed a possible functional conservation to bacterial orthologs, especially for UreF. Using amino-terminally StrepII-tagged urease accessory proteins, an interaction between rice UreD and urease could be shown. Prokaryotic and eukaryotic urease activation complexes seem conserved despite limited protein sequence conservation for UreF and UreD. In plant metabolism, urea is generated by the arginase reaction. Rice arginase was transiently expressed as a carboxyl-terminally StrepII-tagged fusion protein in N. benthamiana, purified, and biochemically characterized (K(m) = 67 mm, k(cat) = 490 s(-1)). The activity depended on the presence of manganese (K(d) = 1.3 microm). In physiological experiments, urease and arginase activities were not influenced by the external N source, but sole urea nutrition imbalanced the plant amino acid profile, leading to the accumulation of asparagine and glutamine in the roots. Our data indicate that reduced plant performance with urea as N source is not a direct result of insufficient urea metabolism but may in part be caused by an imbalance of N distribution.
20632034	The transcription factor OsNAC5 in rice is a member of the plant-specific NAC family that regulates stress responses. Expression of OsNAC5 is induced by abiotic stresses such as drought, cold, high salinity, abscisic acid and methyl jasmonic acid. Transactivation assays using rice protoplasts demonstrated that OsNAC5 is a transcriptional activator, and subcellular localization studies using OsNAC5-GFP fusion proteins showed that it is localized to the nucleus. Pull-down assays revealed that OsNAC5 interacts with OsNAC5, OsNAC6 and SNAC1. To analyze the function of OsNAC5 in rice plants, we generated transgenic plants that overexpressed OsNAC5. The growth of these plants was similar to that of control plants, whereas the growth of OsNAC6-overexpressing transgenic plants was retarded. OsNAC5-overexpressing transgenic plants also had improved tolerance to high salinity compared to control plants. By microarray analysis, many stress-inducible genes, including the "late embryogenesis abundant" gene OsLEA3, were upregulated in rice plants that overexpressed OsNAC5. By gel mobility shift assay, OsNAC5 and OsNAC6 were shown to bind to the OsLEA3 promoter. Collectively, our results indicate that the stress-responsive proteins OsNAC5 and OsNAC6 are transcriptional activators that enhance stress tolerance by upregulating the expression of stress-inducible rice genes such as OsLEA3, although the effects of these proteins on growth are different. Furthermore, because OsNAC5 overexpression did not retard growth, OsNAC5 may be a useful gene that can improve the stress tolerance of rice without affecting its growth.
20632093	Two experiments were conducted to determine (i) the effects of protein-rich trees (PRTs) and (ii) the effects of leucaena treated with NaOH solution and leucaena plus polyethylene glycol (PEG) on nutrient digestibility, nitrogen (N) balance, urinary purine derivatives excretion and blood metabolites in Thai swamp buffaloes. In Experiment 1, animals were fed with rice straw as a basal diet and one of the four PRT supplements: (i) oven-dried rain tree pods (RTPP, control); (ii) sun-dried leucaena leaves; (iii) sun-dried cassia leaves and (iv) sun-dried mulberry leaves. Fibre digestibility and N balance were lower (P < 0.05), but microbial N in the rumen was higher (P < 0.05) in animals supplemented with RTPP than in those fed with the other supplements. In Experiment 2, animals were fed with rice straw as a basal diet and leucaena were treated in one of three ways: (i) untreated (control), (ii) leucaena treated with NaOH solution and (iii) leucaena + PEG. Fibre digestibility and N balance in the rumen improved (P < 0.05) in animals supplemented with leucaena + PEG, but microbial N was not increased. The study demonstrated a way of using local PRTs for a suitable and worthwhile method to improve the quality of buffalo feeding systems in the tropics.
20632114	α- and β-Galactosidases find application in food processing, health and nutrition. Aspergillus niger is one of the potent producer of these enzymes and was genotypically improved using gamma-ray induced mutagenesis. The mutant-derivative produced two-fold higher α- and β-galactosidases. For testing genetic variability and its relationship with phenotypic properties of the two organisms, DNA samples of the mutant and parental strains of A. niger were amplified with 28 deca-nucleotide synthetic primers. RAPD analysis showed significantly different pattern between parental and mutant cultures. The mutant derivative yielded homogeneous while parental strain formed heterogeneous amplification patterns. Seven primers identified 42.9% polymorphism in the amplification products, indicating that these primers determined some genetic variability between the two strains. Thus RAPD was found to be an efficient technique to determine genetic variability in the mutant and wild organisms. Both wild and mutant strains were analyzed for their potential to produce galactosidases. Comparison of different carbon sources on enzyme yield revealed that wheat bran is significant (P < 0.01) effective producer and economical source followed by rice bran, rice polishing and lactose. The mutant was significantly better enzyme producer and could be considered for its prospective application in food, nutrition and health and that RAPD can be effectively used to differentiate mutant strain from the parental strain based on the RAPD patterns.
20632162	In the present study, we have used carbon nanotube field effect transistors (FET) that have been functionalized with protein G and IgG to detect Aspergillus flavus in contaminated milled rice. The adsorbed protein G on the carbon nanotubes walls enables the IgG anti-Aspergillus antibodies to be well oriented and therefore to display full antigen binding capacity for fungal antigens. A solution of Tween 20 and gelatine was used as an effective blocking agent to prevent the non-specific binding of the antibodies and other moulds and also to protect the transducer against the interferences present in the rice samples. Our FET devices were able to detect at least 10 μg/g of A. flavus in only 30 min. To evaluate the selectivity of our biosensors, Fusarium oxysporum and Penicillium chrysogenum were tested as potential competing moulds for A. flavus. We have proved that our devices are highly selective tools for detecting mycotoxigenic moulds at low concentrations in real samples.
20634950	The completion of the rice genome sequence has made it possible to identify and characterize new genes and to perform comparative genomics studies across taxa. The aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) gene superfamily encoding for NAD(P)(+)-dependent enzymes is found in all major plant and animal taxa. However, the characterization of plant ALDHs has lagged behind their animal- and prokaryotic-ALDH homologs. In plants, ALDHs are involved in abiotic stress tolerance, male sterility restoration, embryo development and seed viability and maturation. However, there is still no structural property-dependent functional characterization of ALDH protein superfamily in plants. In this paper, we identify members of the rice ALDH gene superfamily and use the evolutionary nesting events of retrotransposons and protein-modeling-based structural reconstitution to report the genetic and molecular and structural features of each member of the rice ALDH superfamily in abiotic/biotic stress responses and developmental processes. Our results indicate that rice-ALDHs are the most expanded plant ALDHs ever characterized. This work represents the first report of specific structural features mediating functionality of the whole families of ALDHs in an organism ever characterized.
20636227	The primary endpoint in our study was to investigate the effect of a red yeast rice (RYR) product on plasma lipids. A randomized, double-blind, placebo controlled study was performed. Patients were randomized to either RYR (HypoCol, 4 capsules/day) (n=22) or placebo (n=20) for 16 weeks. Inclusion criteria were male or female, 18-75 years, LDL-cholesterol between 3.0 and 6.0 mmol/L, fasting triglyceride level less than 4.5 mmol/L. Patients receiving RYR experienced a significant reduction in LDL-cholesterol (23.0%) and total cholesterol (15.5%) compared to placebo after 16 weeks of treatment (p<0.001). The tested red yeast rice product demonstrated a significant cholesterol lowering effect compared to placebo, and was well tolerated in this Caucasian population.
20637108	Protein phosphatases are the key components of a number of signaling pathways where they modulate various cellular responses. In plants, protein phosphatases constitute a large gene family and are reportedly involved in the regulation of abiotic stress responses and plant development. Recently, the whole complement of protein phosphatases has been identified in Arabidopsis genome. While PP2C class of serine/threonine phosphatases has been explored in rice, the whole complement of this gene family is yet to be reported. In silico investigation revealed the presence of 132-protein phosphatase-coding genes in rice genome. Domain analysis and phylogenetic studies of evolutionary relationship categorized these genes into PP2A, PP2C, PTP, DSP and LMWP classes. PP2C class represents a major proportion of this gene family with 90 members. Chromosomal localization revealed their distribution on all the 12 chromosomes, with 42 genes being present on segmentally duplicated regions and 10 genes on tandemly duplicated regions of chromosomes. The expression profiles of 128 genes under salinity, cold and drought stress conditions, 11 reproductive developmental (panicle and seed) stages along with three stages of vegetative development were analyzed using microarray expression data. 46 genes were found to be differentially expressing in 3 abiotic stresses out of which 31 were up-regulated and 15 exhibited down-regulation. A total of 82 genes were found to be differentially expressing in different developmental stages. An overlapping expression pattern was found for abiotic stresses and reproductive development, wherein 8 genes were up-regulated and 7 down-regulated. Expression pattern of the 13 selected genes was validated employing real time PCR, and it was found to be in accordance with the microarray expression data for most of the genes. Exploration of protein phosphatase gene family in rice has resulted in the identification of 132 members, which can be further divided into different classes phylogenetically. Expression profiling and analysis indicate the involvement of this large gene family in a number of signaling pathways triggered by abiotic stresses and their possible role in plant development. Our study will provide the platform from where; the expression pattern information can be transformed into molecular, cellular and biochemical characterization of members belonging to this gene family.
20637143	A wild population of the lymnaeid snail Pseudosuccinea columella infected by larval stages of Fasciola hepatica was discovered in the Pinar del Río Province, Cuba. One of 100 snails was infected in a rice culture field. This is the first time this species has been found acting as intermediate host of F. hepatica under natural conditions, not only for Cuba but also for the Caribbean area.
20637491	Variations in pulmonary function tests (PFTs) due to agriculture crop residue burning (ACRB) on children between the age group of 10 to 13 years and the young between 20 to 35 years are studied. The effects of exposure to smoke due to rice-wheat crop residue burning on pulmonary functions like Force Vital Capacity (FVC), Force Expiratory Volume in one second (FEV(1)), Peak Expiratory Flow (PEF) and Force Expiratory Flow in 25 to 75% of FVC (FEF(25-75%)) on 40 healthy subjects of rural/agricultural area of Sidhuwal village of Patiala City were investigated for a period from August 2008 to July 2009. Measurements were taken by spirometry according to the American Thoracic Society standards. High volume sampler (HVS) and Anderson Impactor were used to measure the concentration levels of SPM, PM(10) and PM(2.5) in ambient air of the Sidhuwal village. A significant increase in the concentration levels of SPM, PM(10) and PM(2.5) was observed due to which PFTs of the subjects showed a significant decrease in their values, more prominently in the case of children. PFTs of young subjects recovered up to some extent after the completion of burning period but the PFT values of children remained significantly lower (p<0.001) even after the completion of burning episodes. Small size particulate matter (PM(2.5) and PM(10)) affected the PFTs to a large extent in comparison to the large size particulate matter (SPM). The study indicates that ACRB is a serious environmental health hazard and children are more sensitive to air pollution, as ACRB poses some unrecoverable influence on their PFTs.
20637908	There is widespread interest within academia to work on public good genetically engineered (GE) projects to the benefit of the poor, especially to use GE-technology to contribute to food security. Not a single product from this work has reached the market. The major cause is GE-regulation, which prevents use of the technology for public good beyond proof-of-concept (Potrykus, I. (2010) Lessons from the Humanitarian Golden Rice project: Regulation prevents development of public good GE-products (these Proceedings)). There is, however, another key problem responsible for the lack of deployment of public good GE-plants: the public sector is incompetent and disinterested for work beyond proof-of-concept, and has neither capability nor funding to develop GE-plant products and introduce them to growers and consumers. The private sector has the expertise for both and in the right circumstances can be ready to support the public sector in public good enterprises. Public-private-partnerships are the best solution so far, to advance exploitation of GE-technology to the benefit of the poor. Public-private-partnerships are viable, however, only, if there is mutual interest from the private sector and initiative and funding from the public sector.
20638497	A new solid-phase microextraction (SPME) fiber is fabricated through ultra violet irradiation polymerization of ametryn-molecularly imprinted polymer on the surface of anodized-silylated aluminum wire. The prepared fiber is durable with very good chemical and thermal stability which can be coupled to GC and GC/MS. The effective parameters on the fabrication and application procedures such as spraying mode, ultra violet irradiation (polymerization) time, number of sprayings and polymerizations, pH and ionic strength of sample and extraction time were optimized. This fiber shows high selectivity with great extraction capacity toward triazines. SPME and GC analysis of ametryn, prometryn, terbutryn, atrazine, simazine, propazine and cyanazine using the fabricated fiber result in the detection limits of 9, 32, 27, 43, 51, 74 and 85 ng mL(-1), respectively. The reliability of the prepared fiber in real samples has been investigated and proved by using spiked tap water, rice, maize and onion samples.
20638702	Arsenic (As) induced identifiable health outcomes are now spreading across Indian subcontinent with continuous discovery of high As concentrations in groundwater. This study deals with groundwater hydrochemistry vis-à-vis As exposure assessment among rural population in Chakdaha block, West Bengal, India. The water quality survey reveals that 96% of the tubewells exceed WHO guideline value (10 μg/L of As). The groundwaters are generally anoxic (-283 to -22 mV) with circum-neutral pH (6.3 to 7.8). The hydrochemistry is dominated by HCO(3)(-) (208 to 440 mg/L), Ca(2+) (79 to 178 mg/L) and Mg(2+) (17 to 45 mg/L) ions along with high concentrations of As(T) (As total, below detection limit to 0.29 mg/L), Fe(T) (Fe total, 1.2 to 16 mg/L), and Fe(II) (0.74 to 16 mg/L). The result demonstrates that Fe(II)-Fe(III) cycling is the dominant process for the release of As from aquifer sediments to groundwater (and vice versa), which is mainly controlled by the local biogeochemical conditions. The exposure scenario reveals that the consumption of groundwater and rice are the major pathways of As accumulation in human body, which is explained by the dietary habit of the surveyed population. Finally, regular awareness campaign is essential as part of the management and prevention of health outcomes.
20639116	The artificial biomass based on three biomass components (cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin) were developed on the basis of a simplex-lattice approach. Together with a natural biomass sample, they were employed in enzymatic hydrolysis researches. Different enzyme combines of two commercial enzymes (ACCELLERASE 1500 and OPTIMASH BG) showed a potential to hydrolyze hemicellulose completely. Negligible interactions among the three components were observed, and the used enzyme ACCELLERASE 1500 was proven to be weak lignin-binding. On this basis, a multiple linear-regression equation was established for predicting the reducing sugar yield based on the component proportions in a biomass. The hemicellulose and cellulose in a biomass sample were found to have different contributions in staged hydrolysis at different time periods. Furthermore, the hydrolysis of rice straw was conducted to validate the computation approach through considerations of alkaline solution pretreatment and combined enzymes function, so as to understand better the nature of biomass hydrolysis, from the aspect of three biomass components.
20639228	A pure culture of an obligately anaerobic, hydrogenotrophic, methanogenic archaeon, designated strain 169(T), which grows with hydrogen and carbon dioxide as the sole energy and carbon sources, was isolated from an anaerobic propionate-oxidizing enrichment culture originally obtained as an inoculant from rice-field soil in Japan. Cells of strain 169(T) were non-motile, Gram-reaction-variable and rod-shaped or slightly curved rods with rounded ends (1.6-5.0 × 0.35-0.5 µm). Strain 169(T) had fimbriae at both ends of the cell (up to ~10 per cell) but did not possess flagella. Ultrathin sections showed a single-layered, electron-dense cell wall about 6 nm thick, which is typical of Gram-positive bacteria. Growth was observed at 15 °C-45 °C (optimum 40 °C), at pH 6.5-9.6 (optimum pH 7.5-8.5) and in 0-70 g NaCl l(-1) (0-1.2 M) (optimum 5 g NaCl l(-1); 0.086 M). Strain 169(T) utilized only hydrogen and carbon dioxide as energy and carbon sources. The DNA G+C content was 39.3 mol%. The results of 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that strain 169(T) was most closely related to Methanobacterium subterraneum DSM 11074(T) (96.8 % sequence similarity) and Methanobacterium formicicum DSM 1535(T) (96.4 %). On the basis of its morphological, physiological and phylogenetic characteristics, strain 169(T) (= DSM 22026(T) = JCM 15797(T)) represents a novel species of the genus Methanobacterium, for which the name Methanobacterium kanagiense sp. nov. is proposed.
20639327	The genus Acinetobacter is ubiquitous in soil, aquatic, and sediment environments and includes pathogenic strains, such as A. baumannii. Many Acinetobacter species isolated from various environments have biotechnological potential since they are capable of degrading a variety of pollutants. Acinetobacter sp. strain DR1 has been identified as a diesel degrader. Here we report the complete genome sequence of Acinetobacter sp. DR1 isolated from the soil of a rice paddy.
20639448	To infect plants, many pathogenic fungi develop specialized infection structures called appressoria. Here, we report that appressorium development in the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae involves an unusual cell division, in which nuclear division is spatially uncoupled from the site of cytokinesis and septum formation. The position of the appressorium septum is defined prior to mitosis by formation of a heteromeric septin ring complex, which was visualized by spatial localization of Septin4:green fluorescent protein (GFP) and Septin5:GFP fusion proteins. Mitosis in the fungal germ tube is followed by long-distance nuclear migration and rapid formation of an actomyosin contractile ring in the neck of the developing appressorium, at a position previously marked by the septin complex. By contrast, mutants impaired in appressorium development, such as Deltapmk1 and DeltacpkA regulatory mutants, undergo coupled mitosis and cytokinesis within the germ tube. Perturbation of the spatial control of septation, by conditional mutation of the SEPTATION-ASSOCIATED1 gene of M. oryzae, prevented the fungus from causing rice blast disease. Overexpression of SEP1 did not affect septation during appressorium formation, but instead led to decoupling of nuclear division and cytokinesis in nongerminated conidial cells. When considered together, these results indicate that SEP1 is essential for determining the position and frequency of cell division sites in M. oryzae and demonstrate that differentiation of appressoria requires a cytokinetic event that is distinct from cell divisions within hyphae.
20639575	Cucumisin is a subtilisin-like serine protease (subtilase) that is found in the juice of melon fruits (Cucumis melo L.). It is synthesized as a preproprotein consisting of a signal peptide, NH(2)-terminal propeptide, and 67-kDa protease domain. We investigated the role of this propeptide (88 residues) in the cucumisin precursor. Complementary DNAs encoding the propeptides of cucumisin, two other plant subtilases (Arabidopsis ARA12 and rice RSP1), and bacterial subtilisin E were expressed in Escherichia coli independently of their mature enzymes. The cucumisin propeptide strongly inhibited cucumisin in a competitive manner with a K(i) value of 6.2 ± 0.55 nm. Interestingly, cucumisin was also strongly inhibited by ARA12 and RSP1 propeptides but not by the subtilisin E propeptide. In contrast, the propeptides of cucumisin, ARA12, and RSP1 did not inhibit subtilisin. Deletion analysis clearly showed that two hydrophobic regions, Asn(32)-Met(38) and Gly(97)-Leu(103), in the cucumisin propeptide were important for its inhibitory activity. Site-directed mutagenesis also confirmed the role of a Val(36)-centerd hydrophobic cluster within the Asn(32)-Met(38) region in cucumisin inhibition. Circular dichroism spectroscopy revealed that the cucumisin propeptide had a secondary structure without a cognate protease domain and that the thermal unfolding of the propeptide at 90 °C was only partial and reversible. A tripeptide, Ile(35)-Val(36)-Tyr(37), in the Asn(32)-Met(38) region was thought to contribute toward the formation of a proper secondary structure necessary for cucumisin inhibition. This is the first report on the function and structural information of the propeptide of a plant serine protease.
20639576	The GH3 family of acyl-acid-amido synthetases catalyze the ATP-dependent formation of amino acid conjugates to modulate levels of active plant hormones, including auxins and jasmonates. Initial biochemical studies of various GH3s show that these enzymes group into three families based on sequence relationships and acyl-acid substrate preference (I, jasmonate-conjugating; II, auxin- and salicylic acid-conjugating; III, benzoate-conjugating); however, little is known about the kinetic and chemical mechanisms of these enzymes. Here we use GH3-8 from Oryza sativa (rice; OsGH3-8), which functions as an indole-acetic acid (IAA)-amido synthetase, for detailed mechanistic studies. Steady-state kinetic analysis shows that the OsGH3-8 requires either Mg(2+) or Mn(2+) for maximal activity and is specific for aspartate but accepts asparagine as a substrate with a 45-fold decrease in catalytic efficiency and accepts other auxin analogs, including phenyl-acetic acid, indole butyric acid, and naphthalene-acetic acid, as acyl-acid substrates with 1.4-9-fold reductions in k(cat)/K(m) relative to IAA. Initial velocity and product inhibition studies indicate that the enzyme uses a Bi Uni Uni Bi Ping Pong reaction sequence. In the first half-reaction, ATP binds first followed by IAA. Next, formation of an adenylated IAA intermediate results in release of pyrophosphate. The second half-reaction begins with binding of aspartate, which reacts with the adenylated intermediate to release IAA-Asp and AMP. Formation of a catalytically competent adenylated-IAA reaction intermediate was confirmed by mass spectrometry. These mechanistic studies provide insight on the reaction catalyzed by the GH3 family of enzymes to modulate plant hormone action.
20640952	The "New Variant Famine" hypothesis proposed that AIDS offers a major challenge to food security in this part of Africa by impairing the functioning of traditional support systems, leading to the collapse of "social immunity". This study explores the changing perceptions of HIV and AIDS and peoples' responses to its impact by eliciting life history narratives of 30 respondents in Northern Malawi. We classified respondents by means of gender, livelihood systems and AIDS impact levels. Respondents reported a range of critical events, recorded in the life histories, that threatened their "social immunity", including deaths, sicknesses, migration, marriages and divorces, and dropping out of school; i.e., a greater range of risks than AIDS alone, that need to be recognised in HIV and AIDS programming. For the respondents who were classified as "AIDS-affected", learning about their seropositive status was found to be an important, and in some cases a positive, turning point in their lives in terms of behavioural changes, such as joining support groups and opening up to discussion of the implications of their status. The emerging social organisations could re-create social capacity and check the downward spiral proposed by the "New Variant Famine" hypothesis. To promote this shift and to confer a higher level of "social immunity", investments in expanding access to voluntary counselling and testing and antiretroviral therapy services, and assistance to community-based organisations would be essential.
20643233	The potential impacts of genetically modified (GM) crops on income, poverty and nutrition in developing countries continue to be the subject of public controversy. Here, a review of the evidence is given. As an example of a first-generation GM technology, the effects of insect-resistant Bt cotton are analysed. Bt cotton has already been adopted by millions of small-scale farmers, in India, China, and South Africa among others. On average, farmers benefit from insecticide savings, higher effective yields and sizeable income gains. Insights from India suggest that Bt cotton is employment generating and poverty reducing. As an example of a second-generation technology, the likely impacts of beta-carotene-rich Golden Rice are analysed from an ex ante perspective. Vitamin A deficiency is a serious nutritional problem, causing multiple adverse health outcomes. Simulations for India show that Golden Rice could reduce related health problems significantly, preventing up to 40,000 child deaths every year. These examples clearly demonstrate that GM crops can contribute to poverty reduction and food security in developing countries. To realise such social benefits on a larger scale requires more public support for research targeted to the poor, as well as more efficient regulatory and technology delivery systems.
20643262
20643753	Crop yield is most sensitive to water deficit during the reproductive stage. For rice, the most sensitive yield component is spikelet fertility and the most sensitive stage is immediately before heading. Here, we examined the effect of drought on the anther proteome of two rice genotypes: Moroberekan and IR64. Water was withheld for 3 d before heading (3DBH) in well watered controls for 5 d until the flag leaf relative water content (RWC) had declined to 45-50%. Plants were then re-watered and heading occurred 2-3 d later, representing a delay of 4-5 d relative to controls. The anther proteins were separated at 3 DBH, at the end of the stress period, and at heading in stressed/re-watered plants and controls by two-dimensional (2-D) gel electrophoresis, and 93 protein spots were affected reproducibly in abundance by drought during the experiment across two rice genotypes. After drought stress, upon re-watering, expressions of 24 protein spots were irreversible in both genotypes, 60 protein spots were irreversible in IR64 but reversible in Moroberekan, only nine protein spots were irreversible in Moroberekan while reversible in IR64. Among them, there were 14 newly drought-induced protein spots in IR64; none of them was reversible on re-watering. However, there were 13 newly drought-induced protein spots in Moroberekan, 10 of them were reversible on re-watering, including six drought-induced protein spots that were not reversed in IR64. Taken together, our proteomics data reveal that drought-tolerant genotype Moroberekan possessed better recovery capability following drought and re-watering at the anther proteome level than the drought-sensitive genotype IR64. The disruptions of drought to rice anther development and pollen cell functions are also discussed in the paper.
20643810	In rice, the class I small heat shock protein (sHSP-CI) genes were found to be selectively induced by L-azetidine-2-carboxylic acid (AZC) on chromosome 3 but not chromosome 1. Here it is shown that a novel cis-responsive element contributed to the differential regulation. By serial deletion and computational analysis, a 9 bp putative AZC-responsive element (AZRE), GTCCTGGAC, located between nucleotides -186 and -178 relative to the transcription initiation site of Oshsp17.3 was revealed. Deletion of this putative AZRE from the promoter abolished its ability to be induced by AZC. Moreover, electrophoretic mobility shift assay (EMSA) revealed that the AZRE interacted specifically with nuclear proteins from AZC-treated rice seedlings. Two AZRE-protein complexes were detected by EMSA, one of which could be competed out by a canonical heat shock element (HSE). Deletion of the AZRE also affected the HS response. Furthermore, transient co-expression of the heat shock factor OsHsfA4b with the AZRE in the promoter of Oshsp17.3 was effective. The requirement for the putative AZRE for AZC and HS responses in transgenic Arabidopsis was also shown. Thus, AZRE represents an alternative form of heat HSE, and its interaction with canonical HSEs through heat shock factors may be required to respond to HS and AZC.
20644566	As an important agronomic trait, inclination of leaves is crucial for crop architecture and grain yields. To understand the molecular mechanism controlling rice leaf angles, one rice leaf inclination2 (lc2, three alleles) mutant was identified and functionally characterized. Compared to wild-type plants, lc2 mutants have enlarged leaf angles due to increased cell division in the adaxial epidermis of lamina joint. The LC2 gene was isolated through positional cloning, and encodes a vernalization insensitive 3-like protein. Complementary expression of LC2 reversed the enlarged leaf angles of lc2 plants, confirming its role in controlling leaf inclination. LC2 is mainly expressed in the lamina joint during leaf development, and particularly, is induced by the phytohormones abscisic acid, gibberellic acid, auxin, and brassinosteroids. LC2 is localized in the nucleus and defects of LC2 result in altered expression of cell division and hormone-responsive genes, indicating an important role of LC2 in regulating leaf inclination and mediating hormone effects.
20644586	The chitin-binding ability of isoperoxidases isolated from 23 plants of different species was studied. The activation of peroxidases in a protein extract in the presence of this polysaccharide was found for 14 of the studied plants. Anionic isoperoxidases were shown to be sorbed on chitin and eluted from them with 1 M NaCl for 16 of the plant species. Cationic isoforms of the peroxidases of some species of the Fabaceae and Cucurbitaceae plant families also bound to chitin. An immunochemical similarity was found between the chitin-binding isoperoxidases of taxonomically distant plant species (the Pomaceous, Fabaceae, and gourd families). Moreover, a high homology of the molecular structures of the polysaccharide-binding sites was revealed for the anionic peroxidases of rice, wheat, oat, zucchini, cucumber, and radish. We propose the existence of a special class of plant peroxidases that bind with polysaccharides (chitin) and participate in the protective reactions of plants against pathogens.
20644651	RBR ubiquitin ligases are components of the ubiquitin-proteasome system present in all eukaryotes. They are characterized by having the RBR (RING - IBR - RING) supradomain. In this study, the patterns of emergence of RBR genes in plants are described. Phylogenetic and structural data confirm that just four RBR subfamilies (Ariadne, ARA54, Plant I/Helicase and Plant II) exist in viridiplantae. All of them originated before the split that separated green algae from the rest of plants. Multiple genes of two of these subfamilies (Ariadne and Plant II) appeared in early plant evolution. It is deduced that the common ancestor of all plants contained at least five RBR genes and the available data suggest that this number has been increasing slowly along streptophyta evolution, although losses, especially of Helicase RBR genes, have also occurred in several lineages. Some higher plants (e. g. Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa) contain a very large number of RBR genes and many of them were recently generated by tandem duplications. Microarray data indicate that most of these new genes have low-level and sometimes specific expression patterns. On the contrary, and as occurs in animals, a small set of older genes are broadly expressed at higher levels. The available data suggests that the dynamics of appearance and conservation of RBR genes is quite different in plants from what has been described in animals. In animals, an abrupt emergence of many structurally diverse RBR subfamilies in early animal history, followed by losses of multiple genes in particular lineages, occurred. These patterns are not observed in plants. It is also shown that while both plants and animals contain a small, similar set of essential RBR genes, the rest evolves differently. The functional implications of these results are discussed.
20644695	Methylmercury (MeHg) is highly toxic, and its principal target tissue in humans is the nervous system, which has made MeHg intoxication a public health concern for many decades. The general population is primarily exposed to MeHg through consumption of contaminated fish and marine mammals, but recent studies have reported high levels of MeHg in rice and confirmed that in China the main human exposure to MeHg is related to frequent rice consumption in mercury (Hg) polluted areas. This article reviews the progress in the research on MeHg accumulation in rice, human exposure and health effects, and nutrient and co-contaminant interactions. Compared with fish, rice is of poor nutritional quality and lacks specific micronutrients identified as having health benefits (e.g., n-3 long chain polyunsaturated fatty acid, selenium, essential amino acids). The effects of these nutrients on the toxicity of MeHg should be better addressed in future epidemiologic and clinical studies. More emphasis should be given to assessing the health effects of low level MeHg exposure in the long term, with appropriate recommendations, as needed, to reduce MeHg exposure in the rice-eating population.
20645384	Global mean temperatures are expected to rise by 2-4.5 degrees C by 2100, accompanied by an increase in frequency and amplitude of extreme temperature events. Greater climatic extremes and an expanded range of cultivation will expose rice to increasing stress in the future. Understanding gene expression in disparate thermal regimes is important for the engineering of cultivars with tolerance to nonoptimal temperatures. Our study investigated the proteomic responses of rice cell suspension cultures to sudden temperature changes. Cell cultures grown at 28 degrees C were subjected to 3-day exposure to 12 or 20 degrees C for low-temperature stress, and 36 or 44 degrees C for high-temperature stress. Quantitative label-free shotgun proteomic analysis was performed on biological triplicates of each treatment. Over 1900 proteins were expressed in one or more temperature treatments, and, of these, more than 850 were found to be responsive to either of the temperature extremes. These temperature-responsive proteins included more than 300 proteins which were uniquely expressed at either 12 or 44 degrees C. Our study also identified 40 novel stress-response proteins and observed that switching between the classical and the alternative pathways of sucrose metabolism occurs in response to extremes of temperature.
20645458	This paper provides an historical survey of the evolution of rice technology in China, from the traditional farming system to genetically modified rice today. Using sociotechnological analytical framework, it analyses rice technology as a socio-technical ensemble - a complex interaction of material and social elements, and discusses the specificity of technology development and its socio-technical outcomes. It points to two imperatives in rice variety development: wholesale transporting agricultural technology and social mechanism to developing countries are likely lead to negative consequences; indigenous innovation including deploying GM technology for seed varietal development and capturing/cultivating local knowledge will provide better solutions.
20645760	Proteins from Parkia speciosa Hassk. (Fabaceae) seeds were extracted and stepwise precipitated using ammonium sulfate. Proteins precipitated with 25% ammonium sulfate were separated by affinity chromatography on Affi-Gel Blue gel followed by protein liquid chromatography on Superdex 200. The protein Gj, which was identified as a protein similar to putative aristolochene synthase, 3'-partial from Oryza sativa L. (Poaceae), had hemagglutinating activity of 0.39 mug/muL. Moreover, fraction C2 from the proteins precipitated with 60% ammonium sulfate, separated by lectin-specific adsorption chromatography using Con A Sepharose, had hemagglutinating activity of 1.17 mug/muL. Using gel electrophoresis, two proteins C2a and C2b were separated, having molecular weights of 45 kDa and 23 kDa, respectively. From protein identification, C2a was found to be similar to the hypothetical protein B1342F01.11 from Oryza sativa, and C2b was similar to the hypothetical protein At1g51560 from Arabidopsis thaliana (L.) Heynh. (Brassicaceae).
20646326	The DNA repair and recombination (DRR) proteins protect organisms against genetic damage, caused by environmental agents and other genotoxic agents, by removal of DNA lesions or helping to abide them. We identified genes potentially involved in DRR mechanisms in Arabidopsis and rice using similarity searches and conserved domain analysis against proteins known to be involved in DRR in human, yeast and E. coli. As expected, many of DRR genes are very similar to those found in other eukaryotes. Beside these eukaryotes specific genes, several prokaryotes specific genes were also found to be well conserved in plants. In Arabidopsis, several functionally important DRR gene duplications are present, which do not occur in rice. Among DRR proteins, we found that proteins belonging to the nucleotide excision repair pathway were relatively more conserved than proteins needed for the other DRR pathways. Sub-cellular localization studies of DRR gene suggests that these proteins are mostly reside in nucleus while gene drain in between nucleus and cell organelles were also found in some cases. The similarities and dissimilarities in between plants and other organisms' DRR pathways are discussed. The observed differences broaden our knowledge about DRR in the plants world, and raises the potential question of whether differentiated functions have evolved in some cases. These results, altogether, provide a useful framework for further experimental studies in these organisms.
20647376	A complete map of the Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) proteome is clearly a major goal for the plant research community in terms of determining the function and regulation of each encoded protein. Developing genome-wide prediction tools such as for localizing gene products at the subcellular level will substantially advance Arabidopsis gene annotation. To this end, we performed a comprehensive study in Arabidopsis and created an integrative support vector machine-based localization predictor called AtSubP (for Arabidopsis subcellular localization predictor) that is based on the combinatorial presence of diverse protein features, such as its amino acid composition, sequence-order effects, terminal information, Position-Specific Scoring Matrix, and similarity search-based Position-Specific Iterated-Basic Local Alignment Search Tool information. When used to predict seven subcellular compartments through a 5-fold cross-validation test, our hybrid-based best classifier achieved an overall sensitivity of 91% with high-confidence precision and Matthews correlation coefficient values of 90.9% and 0.89, respectively. Benchmarking AtSubP on two independent data sets, one from Swiss-Prot and another containing green fluorescent protein- and mass spectrometry-determined proteins, showed a significant improvement in the prediction accuracy of species-specific AtSubP over some widely used "general" tools such as TargetP, LOCtree, PA-SUB, MultiLoc, WoLF PSORT, Plant-PLoc, and our newly created All-Plant method. Cross-comparison of AtSubP on six nontrained eukaryotic organisms (rice [Oryza sativa], soybean [Glycine max], human [Homo sapiens], yeast [Saccharomyces cerevisiae], fruit fly [Drosophila melanogaster], and worm [Caenorhabditis elegans]) revealed inferior predictions. AtSubP significantly outperformed all the prediction tools being currently used for Arabidopsis proteome annotation and, therefore, may serve as a better complement for the plant research community. A supplemental Web site that hosts all the training/testing data sets and whole proteome predictions is available at http://bioinfo3.noble.org/AtSubP/.
20647377	C-Glycosylflavones are ubiquitous in the plant kingdom, and many of them have beneficial effects on human health. They are a special group of flavonoid glycosides in which the sugars are C-linked to the flavone skeleton. It has been long presumed that C-glycosylflavones have a different biosynthetic origin from O-glycosylflavonoids. In rice (Oryza sativa), a C-glucosyltransferase (OsCGT) that accepts 2-hydroxyflavanone substrates and a dehydratase activity that selectively converts C-glucosyl-2-hydroxyflavanones to 6C-glucosylflavones were recently described. In this study, we provide in vitro and in planta evidence that the rice P450 CYP93G2 protein encoded by Os06g01250 is a functional flavanone 2-hydroxylase. CYP93G2 is related to the CYP93B subfamily, which consists of dicot flavone synthase II enzymes. In the presence of NADPH, recombinant CYP93G2 converts naringenin and eriodictyol to the corresponding 2-hydroxyflavanones. In addition, CYP93G2 generates 2-hydroxyflavanones, which are modified by O-glycosylation in transgenic Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana). Coexpression of CYP93G2 and OsCGT in Arabidopsis resulted in the production of C-glucosyl-2-hydroxyflavanones in the dibenzoylmethane tautomeric form. The same structure was reported previously for the in vitro OsCGT reaction products. Thus, CYP93G2 generates 2-hydroxyflavanone substrates from flavanones for C-glucosylation by OsCGT in planta. Furthermore, knocking down Os06g01250 in rice (O. sativa subsp. japonica 'Zhonghua 11') preferentially depleted the accumulation of C-glycosylapigenin, C-glycosylluteolin, and C-glycosylchrysoeriol but did not affect the levels of tricin, which is frequently present as O-glycosides in cereals. Taken together, our work conclusively assigned CYP93G2 as the first enzyme that channels flavanones to C-glycosylflavone biosynthesis in rice.
20647469	A substantial proportion of eukaryotic transcripts are considered to be noncoding RNAs because they contain only short open reading frames (sORFs). Recent findings suggest, however, that some sORFs encode small bioactive peptides. Here, we show that peptides of 11 to 32 amino acids encoded by the polished rice (pri) sORF gene control epidermal differentiation in Drosophila by modifying the transcription factor Shavenbaby (Svb). Pri peptides trigger the amino-terminal truncation of the Svb protein, which converts Svb from a repressor to an activator. Our results demonstrate that during Drosophila embryogenesis, Pri sORF peptides provide a strict temporal control to the transcriptional program of epidermal morphogenesis.
2064765	A modification of the polyethylene glycol-mediated transformation procedure which eliminates the manual polyethylene glycol dilution step is presented. A transformation mixture of protoplasts, DNA and polyethylene glycol was plated directly onto agarose blocks after incubation. The procedure was simple and fast, thereby suitable for screening the gene activity of large numbers of plasmid constructions. It has been tested for both maize and rice protoplasts.
20647676	Facultatively anaerobic bacterial strains (A48(T), RR25 and RR54) were isolated from roots of living rice plants in an irrigated rice-field in Japan. The three strains had identical 16S rRNA gene sequences and showed almost the same phenotypic properties examined. Cells of the strains were Gram-negative, non-spore-forming rods. Reproduction of cells was by binary fission as well as by budding. Cells occurred singly or in pairs arranged angularly. Some cells, including dividing cells, were motile with a single polar flagellum. Cells developed a polar prostheca (stalk) with a holdfast-like structure and the cell with the stalk budded a daughter cell. The strains were chemoorganotrophs and utilized various sugars as growth substrates. The strains fermentatively produced acetate and lactate as well as small amounts of ethanol and H(2) from the substrates. Growth temperature and pH ranges for growth were 15-40 degrees C and pH 5.5-7.3 with optimum growth at 30-35 degrees C and pH 6.8. NaCl concentration range for growth was 0-1.0% (wt/vol) with an optimum at 0% (wt/vol). Catalase and oxidase activities were not detected. The strains reduced Fe(III) to Fe(II) in the presence of glucose, while they did not reduce nitrate, fumarate, malate or sulfate. The major cellular fatty acids of the strains were C18:1omega7, anteiso-C15:0, iso-C15:0, C16:0 and C18:0. Ubiquinone Q-10 was the major respiratory quinone and the genomic DNA G + C contents were 53.4-55.4 mol%. Phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene sequences placed the strains in the class Alphaproteobacteria and the strains formed a novel deep branch in the phylogenetic trees constructed. Based on the differences in 16S rRNA gene sequences and phenotypic properties of the novel strains from those of their relatives, we proposed that the strains be assigned in the novel genus and species as Rhizomicrobium palustre gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain of the novel species is strain A48(T) (= JCM 14971(T) = DSM 19867(T)).
20647677	Traditional brewing of Fukuyama pot vinegar is a process that has been continued in Fukuyama, Kagoshima, Japan, for almost 200 years. The entire process proceeds from raw materials, including steamed rice, rice koji (steamed rice grown with a fungus, Aspergillus oryzae) and water, to produce vinegar in roughly capped large pots laid in the open air. No special fermentative manipulation is required, except for scattering dried rice koji (called furi-koji) on the surface of the mash to form a cap-like mat on the surface at the start of brewing. As the biochemical mechanism of the natural transition of the fermentative processes during brewing has not been fully explained, we conducted a microbiological and biochemical study on the transition. First, a distinct biochemical change was observed in the brewing of spring preparation; that is, a sharp decline in pH from 6.5 to 3.5 within the first 5 days of brewing was observed due to lactic acid fermentation. Alcoholic fermentation also proceeded with a sharp increase to 4.5% ethanol within the first 5 days under the acidic conditions, suggesting that saccharification and both fermentations proceed in parallel. Acidic conditions and ethanol accumulation restricted the growth of most microorganisms in the mash, and in turn provided a favorable growth condition for acetic acid bacteria which are acid resistant and "ethanol-philic." Acetic acid was detected from day 16 and gradually increased in concentration, reaching a maximum of 7% at day 70 that was maintained thereafter. Empirically furi-koji naturally sinks into the mash after around day 40 by an unknown mechanism, allowing acetic acid bacteria to easily form pellicles on the mash surface and promoting efficient acetic acid fermentation. Dominant microbial species involved in the three fermentations were identified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis using PCR-amplified defined-regions of small rDNA from microorganisms in the brewing mash or colony direct PCR applied to isolated microorganisms from the mash.
20647682	A parathione-degrading bacterium isolated from rice field in the Philippines, Flavobacterium sp. ATCC 27551 (Sethunathan and Yoshida, 1973, Can. J. Microbiol., 19, 873-875), was re-examined chemotaxonomically and phylogenetically. The strain contained 2-hydroxymyristic acid (2-OH 14 : 0), cis-vaccenic acid (18 : 1 omega7c), and palmitic acid (16 : 0) as major cellular fatty acids, two kinds of glycosphingolipids, and ubiquinone-10 as a sole quinone component. The G+C content of genomic DNA of the strain was 65.9 mol%. The phylogenetic analyses of the 16S rRNA gene indicated that the strain was included in the family Sphingomonadaceae, and most closely related to Sphingobium fuliginis (98.0% similarity) and Sphingobium herbicidovorans (97.3%). The strain showed similar physiological characteristics and a moderate value of DNA-DNA relatedness to S. fuliginis. These data suggested it reasonable to conclude that strain ATCC 27551 was identified as S. fuliginis.
20649940	Coordination of multiple transgenes is essential for metabolic engineering of biosynthetic pathways. Here, we report the utilization of two bicistronic systems involving the 2A sequence from the foot-and-mouth disease virus and the internal ribosome entry site (IRES) sequence from the crucifer-infecting tobamovirus to the biosynthesis of carotenoids in rice endosperm. Two carotenoid biosynthetic genes, phytoene synthase (Psy) from Capsicum and carotene desaturase (CrtI) from Pantoea, were linked via either the synthetic 2A sequence that was optimized for rice codons or the IRES sequence under control of the rice globulin promoter, generating PAC (Psy-2A-CrtI) and PIC (Psy-IRES-CrtI) constructs, respectively. The transgenic endosperm of PAC rice had a more intense golden color than did PIC rice, demonstrating that 2A was more efficient than IRES in coordinating gene expression. The 2A and IRES constructs were equally effective in driving transgene transcription. However, immunoblot analysis of CRTI, a protein encoded by the downstream open reading frame of the bicistronic constructs, revealed that 2A was ninefold more effective than IRES in driving translation. The PAC endosperms accumulated an average of 1.3 μg/g of total carotenoids, which was ninefold higher than was observed for PIC endosperms. In particular, accumulation of β-carotene was much higher in PAC endosperms than in PIC endosperms. Collectively, these results demonstrate that both 2A and IRES systems can coordinate the expression of two biosynthetic genes, with the 2A system exhibiting greater efficiency. Thus, the 2A expression system described herein is an effective new tool for multigene stacking in crop biotechnology.
20650308	Cordyceps militaris is a potential harbour of bio-metabolites for herbal drugs and evidences are available about its applications for revitalization of various systems of the body from ancient times. Amongst all the species, C. militaris is considered as the oldest source of some useful chemical constituents. Besides their popular applications for tonic medicine by the all stairs of the community, the constituents of C. militaris are now used extensively in modern systems of medicine. The current survey records the mysterious potentials of C. militaris are boosting up the present herbal treatments, as well as gearing up the green pharmacy revolution, in order to create a friendly environment with reasonable safety. Evidence showed that the active principles of C. militaris are beneficial to act as pro-sexual, anti-inflammatory, anti-oxidant/anti-aging, anti-tumour/anti-cancer/anti-leukemic, anti-proliferative, anti-metastatic, immunomodulatory, anti-microbial, anti-bacterial, anti-viral, anti-fungal, anti-protozoal, insecticidal, larvicidal, anti-fibrotic, steroidogenic, hypoglacaemic, hypolipidaemic, anti-angiogenetic, anti-diabetic, anti-HIV, anti-malarial, anti-fatigue, neuroprotective, liver-protective, reno-protective as well as pneumo-protective, let alone their other synergistic activities, which let it be marketable in the western countries as over-the-counter medicine. A number of culture techniques for this mushroom have been noticed, for example, storage/stock culture, pre-culture, popular/indigenous culture (spawn culture, husked rice culture and saw dust culture) and, special/laboratory culture (shaking culture, submerged culture, surface liquid culture and continuous/repeated batch culture). The prospects for herbal biotechnology regarding drug discovery using C. militaris delivering what it has promised are high, as the technology is now extremely more powerful than before. This study chiefly highlights the medicinal uses of the mushroom C. militaris including its culture techniques, also aiming to draw sufficient attention of the researchers to the frontier research needs in this context.
20650337	Compared to a non-Genetically Engineered (GE) variety, the deployment of Golden Rice has suffered from a delay of at least ten years. The cause of this delay is exclusively GE-regulation. Considering the potential impact of Golden Rice on the reduction in vitamin A-malnutrition, this delay is responsible for an unjustifiable loss of millions of lives, mostly children and women. GE-regulation is also responsible for the fact that no public institution can deliver a public good GE-product and that thus we have a de facto monopoly in favour of a few potent industries. Considering the forgone benefits from prevented public good GE-products, GE-regulation is responsible for hundreds of millions of lives, all of them, of course, in developing countries. As there is no scientific justification for present GE-regulation, and as it has, so far, not prevented any harm, our society has the urgent responsibility to reconsider present regulation, which is based on an extreme interpretation of the precautionary principle, and change it to science-based regulation on the basis of traits instead of technology. GE-technology has an unprecedented safety record and is far more precise and predictable than any other 'traditional' and unregulated breeding technology. Not to change GE-regulation to a scientific basis is considered by the author 'a crime against humanity'.
20650345	Previous work by our group showed that the degree of particle breakdown of rice during mastication affects in vitro glycemic potency. The objective of this study was to confirm these in vitro findings in an in vivo model. We hypothesized that the degree of habitual mastication will influence individuals' in vivo blood glucose response (glycemic response, or GR) to carbohydrate foods. Eleven participants came in on six nonconsecutive days to the laboratory and evaluated 2 test foods (rice and spaghetti). Their GR was measured for the subsequent 120 minutes. Mastication parameters were determined using surface electrode electromyography. The particle size distribution of individuals' masticated food was also determined. The intraindividual number of chews per mouthful did not significantly differ for rice and spaghetti (29.9 and 33, respectively), although masticated particle size distribution did (P < .001). Significant correlations between the degree of breakdown during mastication and the GR were observed for rice, but none for spaghetti. Individuals' peak GR (at 45 minutes) correlated significantly with the particles size distribution of their masticated rice (P = .002), and also with the total incremental area under the curve for the GR (r = -0.72; P = .012) and the incremental area under the curve for the first 45 (r = -0.74; P = .010) and 60 minutes (r = 0.73; P = .010) postconsumption. The results suggest that individual differences in mastication may be one of the causes for interindividual differences in the GR to rice but not spaghetti.
20650543	The cell walls in the elongating zone of submerged floating rice internodes show high susceptibility to expansins. When internode sections corresponding to such an elongation zone were incubated for 24h under osmotic stress conditions produced by treatment with 100mM polyethylene glycol 4000 (PEG), the cell wall susceptibility to expansins remained at its initial level, while the susceptibility of internode sections incubated under unstressed conditions decreased considerably during the same period. The contents of polysaccharides and phenolic acids as ferulic, diferulic and p-coumaric acids in the cell walls of internode sections increased substantially under unstressed conditions, but the increases were almost completely prevented by osmotic stress. Ferulic acid applied to internode sections under osmotic stress reduced the susceptibility of the cell walls to expansins and increased the levels of ferulic and diferulic acids in the cell walls, with little effect on the accumulation of polysaccharides. In contrast, applied p-coumaric acid increased the level of p-coumaric acid in the cell walls without a change in the levels of ferulic and diferulic acids but did not reduce the susceptibility to expansins. These results suggest that the deposition of ferulic and diferulic acids is a primary determinant in regulating the reduction of the susceptibility of cell walls to expansins in floating rice internodes.
20650847	Genomic imprinting refers to the phenomenon that the expression of a gene copy depends on its parent of origin. The Arabidopsis imprinted FIS (Fertilisation-independent seed) genes, mea, fis2, and fie, play essential roles in the repression of central cell and the regulation of early endosperm development. fis mutants display two phenotypes: autonomous diploid endosperm development when fertilization is absent and un-cellularised endosperm formation when fertilization occurs. The FIS Polycomb protein complex including the above three FIS proteins catalyzes histone H3 K27 tri-methylation on target loci. DME (DEMETER), a DNA glycosylase, and AtMET1 (Methyltransferase1), a DNA methyltransferase, are involved in the regulation of imprinted expression of both mea and fis2. This review summarizes the studies on the Arabidopsis imprinted FIS genes and other related genes. Recent works have shown that the insertion of transposons may affect nearby gene expression, which may be the main driving force behind the evolution of genomic imprinting. This summary covers the achievements on Arabidopsis imprinted genes will provide important information for studies on genomic imprinting in the important crops such as rice and maize.
20650848	Supported by the Department of Energy (DOE) of U.S., the first tree genome, black cottonwood (Populus trichocarpa), has been completely sequenced and publicly release. This is the milestone that indicates the beginning of post-genome era for forest trees. Identification and cloning genes underlying important traits are one of the main tasks for the post-genome-era tree genomic studies. Recently, great achievements have been made in cloning genes coordinating important domestication traits in some crops, such as rice, tomato, maize and so on. Molecular breeding has been applied in the practical breeding programs for many crops. By contrast, molecular studies in trees are lagging behind. Trees possess some characteristics that make them as difficult organisms for studying on locating and cloning of genes. With the advances in techniques, given also the fast growth of tree genomic resources, great achievements are desirable in cloning unknown genes from trees, which will facilitate tree improvement programs by means of molecular breeding. In this paper, the author reviewed the progress in tree genomic and gene cloning studies, and prospected the future achievements in order to provide a useful reference for researchers working in this area.
20652492	Calcineurin B-like protein-interacting protein kinases (CIPKs) are a group of typical Ser/Thr protein kinases that mediate calcium signals. Extensive studies using Arabidopsis plants have demonstrated that many calcium signatures that activate CIPKs originate from abiotic stresses. However, there are few reports on the functional demonstration of CIPKs in other plants, especially in grasses. In this study, we used a loss-of-function mutation to characterize the function of the rice CIPK gene OsCIPK31. Exposure to high concentrations of NaCl or mannitol effected a rapid and transient enhancement of OsCIPK31 expression. These findings were observed only in the light. However, longer exposure to most stresses resulted in downregulation of OsCIPK31 expression in both the presence and absence of light. To determine the physiological roles of OsCIPK31 in rice plants, the sensitivity of oscipk31::Ds, which is a transposon Ds insertion mutant, to abiotic stresses was examined during germination and seedling stages. oscipk31::Ds mutants exhibited hypersensitive phenotypes to ABA, salt, mannitol, and glucose. Compared with wild-type rice plants, mutants exhibited retarded germination and slow seedling growth. In addition, oscipk31::Ds seedlings exhibited enhanced expression of several stress-responsive genes after exposure to these abiotic stresses. However, the expression of ABA metabolic genes and the endogenous levels of ABA were not altered significantly in the oscipk31::Ds mutant. This study demonstrated that rice plants use OsCIPK31 to modulate responses to abiotic stresses during the seed germination and seedling stages and to modulate the expression of stress-responsive genes.
20652530	The major rice quantitative-trait locus Submergence 1 (Sub1) confers tolerance of submergence for about 2 weeks. To identify novel sources of tolerance, we have conducted a germplasm survey with allele-specific markers targeting SUB1A and SUB1C, two of the three transcription-factor genes within the Sub1 locus. The objective was to identify tolerant genotypes without the SUB1A gene or with the intolerant SUB1A-2 allele. The survey revealed that all tolerant genotypes possessed the tolerant Sub1 haplotype (SUB1A-1/SUB1C-1), whereas all accessions without the SUB1A gene were intolerant. Only the variety James Wee with the SUB1A-2 allele was moderately tolerant. However, some intolerant genotypes with the SUB1A-1 allele were identified and RT-PCR analyses were conducted to compare gene expression in tolerant and intolerant accessions. Initial analyses of leaf samples failed to reveal a clear association of SUB1A transcript abundance and tolerance. Temporal and spatial gene expression analyses subsequently showed that SUB1A expression in nodes and internodes associated best with tolerance across representative genotypes. In James Wee, transcript abundance was high in all tissues, suggesting that some level of tolerance might be conferred by high expression of the SUB1A-2 allele. To further assess tissue-specific expression, we have expressed the GUS reporter gene under the control of the SUB1A-1 promoter. The data revealed highly specific GUS expression at the base of the leaf sheath and in the leaf collar region. Specific expression in the growing part of rice leaves is well in agreement with the role of SUB1A in suppressing leaf elongation under submergence.
20653290	Wild progenitors of rice (Oryza) are an invaluable resource for restoring genetic diversity and incorporating useful traits back into cultivars. Studies were conducted to characterize the biochemical changes, including SDS-PAGE banding pattern of storage proteins in seeds of six wild species (Oryza alta, O. grandiglumis, O. meridionalis, O. nivara, O. officinalis and O. rhizomatis) of rice stored under high temperature (45 degrees C) and humidity (approixmately 100%) for 15 days, which facilitated accelerated deterioration. Under the treated conditions, seeds of different wild rice species showed decrease in per cent germination and concentrations of protein and starch, but increase in conductivity of leachate and content of sugar. The SDS-PAGE analysis of seed proteins showed that not only the total number of bands, but also their intensity in terms of thickness differed for each species under storage. The total number of bands ranged from 11 to 22, but none of the species showed all the bands. Similarity index for protein bands between the control and treated seeds was observed to be least in O. rhizomatis and O. alta, while the indices were 0.7 and 0.625 for O. officinalis and O. nivara, respectively. This study clearly showed that seed deterioration led to distinctive biochemical changes, including the presence or absence as well as altered levels of intensity of proteins. Hence, SDS-PAGE protein banding pattern can be used effectively to characterize deterioration of seeds of different wild species of rice.
20653414	The adaptation of Rice yellow mottle virus (RYMV) to recessive resistance mediated by the rymv1-2 allele has been reported as a model to study the emergence and evolution of virulent variants. The resistance and virulence factors have been identified as eukaryotic translation initiation factor eIF(iso)4G1 and viral genome-linked protein (VPg), respectively, but the molecular mechanisms involved in their interaction are still unknown. In this study, we demonstrated a direct interaction between RYMV VPg and the central domain of rice eIF(iso)4G1 both in vitro, using recombinant proteins, and in vivo, using a yeast two-hybrid assay. Insertion of the E309K mutation in eIF(iso)4G1, conferring resistance in planta, strongly diminished the interaction with avirulent VPg. The efficiency of the major virulence mutations at restoring the interaction with the resistance protein was assessed. Our results explain the prevalence of virulence mutations fixed during experimental evolution studies and are consistent with the respective viral RNA accumulation levels of avirulent and virulent isolates. Our results also explain the origin of the residual multiplication of wild-type isolates in rymv1-2-resistant plants and the role of genetic context in the poor adaptability of the S2/S3 strain. Finally, the strategies of RYMV and members of family Potyviridae to overcome recessive resistance were compared.
20653886	During physiological stress, ribulose-1,5-bisphosphate carboxylase/oxygenase (Rubisco) degradation is accelerated, which is considered to be one of the key factors responsible for photosynthetic decline. A recent study has shown that the large subunit (RbcL) of Rubisco is directly fragmented by hydroxyl radicals in Cucumis sativus leaves under chilling-light conditions. In the present study, we investigated biochemical aspects associated with this in vivo RbcL fragmentation by reactive oxygen species. RbcL fragmentation was observed in C. sativus and Phaseolus vulgaris, but not in Solanum lycopersicum, Glycine max, Oryza sativa, Triticum aestivum, Spinacia oleracea or Arabidopsis thaliana. In C. sativus and P. vulgaris, RbcL fragmentation followed the fragmentation of PsaB, while in the other species, PsaB fragmentation did not occur. In C. sativus and P. vulgaris, the activities of antioxidant enzymes decreased dramatically under chilling-light conditions, and the proportion of uncarbamylated Rubisco increased. These data suggest that in vivo RbcL fragmentation under chilling-light conditions is associated with a combination of events, namely, inactivation of antioxidant enzymes, destruction of photosystem I and an increase of uncarbamylated Rubisco, which can produce hydroxyl radicals via the Fenton reaction at the catalytic site of RbcL.
20653887	Very little is known about molecular events associated with callus differentiation in indica rice. The genes expressed differentially during shoot meristem initiation were identified on genomic arrays applied to efficiently regenerating rice calli. A thidiazuron (TDZ; N-phenyl-N-thiadiazol-1,2,3-5,ylurea)-dependent regeneration protocol was developed for efficient embryogenesis in indica rice. The regenerating embryogenic calli induced by TDZ for 10 days showed transcriptional modulation of a number of genes associated with photosynthesis, hormone metabolism, plant development, signal transduction, light response, and plant defense. Eighteen candidate miRNAs were predicted to target the genes expressed differentially in the embryogenic calli grown in TDZ-containing medium. The majority of the photosynthesis-related genes up-regulated in differentiating calli were not expressed or were down-regulated in developing seeds and inflorescences. Most of the genes down-regulated in differentiating calli were up-regulated in developing seeds. The transcriptome of differentiating callus most closely resembled that of the germinating whole seed.
20654378	Thiobencarb (S-4-chlorobenzyl N, N-diethylthiocarbamate) has been widely used in the rice fields of Japan. This herbicide is reported to decompose in aqueous chlorination to the compounds 4-chlorotoluene, 4-chlorobenzyl chloride, 4-chlorobenzyl alcohol, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde and 4-chlorobenzoic acid. We compared their cytotoxicity and the inducibility of cytochrome P-450 (P450) in cultured rat hepatocytes. Of the six compounds including thiobencarb, 4-chlorobenzyl chloride was the most hepatotoxic (EC(50): 0.17 mm), followed by thiobencarb (0.69 mm) and 4-chlorotoluene (1.2 mm). 4-Chlorobenzyl alcohol (4.6 mm) and 4-chlorobenzaldehyde (4.6 mm) were less toxic than thiobencarb, and 4-chlorobenzoic acid was the least toxic (> 6.0 mm). From the results of the TBARS (2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substance) assay, lipid peroxidation was shown to be involved in the hepatotoxicity of 4-chlorobenzyl chloride, and less probably in that of thiobencarb and 4-chlorobenzaldehyde. 4-Chlorobenzoic acid and 4-chlorobenzaldehyde induced hepatic ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase and pentoxyresorufin O-depentylase activities, respectively. The induction of enzyme activities was accompanied by the increase in the corresponding P-450 apoprotein. Furthermore, 4-chlorotoluene, 4-chlorobenzaldehyde and 4-chlorobenzoic acid also induced CYP2B1, which was not reflected in the enzyme activity. These results provide primary information on the toxicity of the thiobencarb degradation products in cultured rat hepatocytes.
20654573	A combined theoretical and experimental study highlights the reaction mechanism of allene oxide synthase (AOS) and its possible link to hydroperoxide lyase (HPL) pathway. A previously published study (Lee et al., Nature 455 (2008) 363) has shown that the F137 residue is of central importance in differentiating between the AOS and HPL pathways after initial identical steps. In the experimental part of this study, we show that wild-type AOS from Arabidopsis or rice in fact produces both AOS and HPL products in a ratio of about 80:15, something that was found only in trace amounts before. Theoretical calculations successfully map the whole AOS pathway with 13(S)-hydroperoxy linolenic and linoleic acid as substrates. Subsequent calculations investigated the effects of in silico F137L mutation at the suggested diverging point of the two pathways. The results show that QM/MM calculations can reasonably reproduce three out of four experimentally available cases, and confirm that the pathways are energetically very close to each other, thus making a switch from one path to other plausible under different circumstances.
20654665	In this study, we examined whether the energy density of parboiled rice could influence the total energy intake and satiety of a parboiled rice-based diet by using vegetable. Healthy women (n=30) ate similar amounts of two types of parboiled rice in which energy intake from parboiled vegetable rice (177.7±4.0kcal) was significantly (p<0.001) lower than that from parboiled normal rice (301.5±9.3kcal) due to differences in energy density (parboiled normal rice: 1.42kcal/g, parboiled vegetable rice: 0.86kcal/g). Despite lower energy intake, the subjects consumed significantly less parboiled rice and side dishes at dinner after they consumed parboiled vegetable rice diet for lunch compared with parboiled normal rice diet. The subjects also reported higher levels of fullness and lower levels of hunger after eating the parboiled vegetable rice diet compared to the parboiled normal rice diet. At 4h after lunch, the average hunger rating of parboiled vegetable rice diet (22.1±2.43mm) was significantly (p<0.001) lower than that of parboiled normal rice diet (56.2±2.41mm). In conclusion, these results indicate that consuming low energy dense parboiled rice by eating parboiled vegetable rice in place of parboiled normal rice may be a useful strategy for weight loss and weight management since it allows individuals to consume fewer calories without reducing satiety.
20655567	In the wake of the idea that surface derived dissolved organic carbon (DOC) plays an important role in the mobilization of arsenic (As) from sediments to groundwater and may provide a vital tool in understanding the mechanism of As contamination (mobilization/fixation) in Bengal delta; a study has been carried out. Agricultural fields that mainly cultivate rice (paddy fields) leave significantly large quantities of organic matter/organic carbon on the surface of Bengal delta which during monsoon starts decomposing and produces DOC. The DOC thus produced percolates down with rain water and mobilizes As from the sediments. Investigations on sediment samples collected from a paddy field clearly indicate that As coming on to the surface along with the irrigation water accumulates itself in the top few meters of sediment profile. The column experiments carried out on a 9 m deep sediment profile demonstrates that DOC has a strong potential to mobilize As from the paddy fields and the water recharging the aquifer through such agricultural fields contain As well above the WHO limit thus contaminating the shallow groundwater. Experiment also demonstrates that decay of organic matter induces reducing condition in the sediments. Progressively increasing reducing conditions not only prevent the adsorption of As on mineral surfaces but also cause mobilization of previously sorbed arsenic. There seems to be a cyclic pattern where As from deeper levels comes to the surface with irrigational water, accumulates itself in the sediments, and ultimately moves down to the shallow groundwater. The extensive and continual exploitation of intermediate/deep groundwater accelerates this cyclic process and helps in the movement of shallow contaminated groundwater to the deeper levels.
20656097	Whole-grain products, such as brown rice, have been associated with lower risk of diabetes. However, information is lacking on the acceptability of substituting brown rice for white rice. This study assessed the awareness and acceptability of brown rice in Chinese adults, and examined the feasibility of introducing brown rice into the diet through a large, long-term randomized clinical trial to lower risk of type 2 diabetes. Thirty-two Chinese adults residing in Shanghai participated in this quantitative and qualitative study using questionnaires and focus-group discussions. Most participants (30 of 32) consumed white rice daily and only a few (n=8) had tried brown rice previously. Before tasting, most participants considered brown rice inferior to white rice in terms of taste and quality. However, after tasting brown rice and learning about its nutritional value, the majority indicated greater willingness to consume brown rice. Main barriers to acceptance were the perception of rough texture and unpalatable taste, as well as higher price. All participants suggested that large-scale promotion was needed to change societal attitudes toward brown rice. In addition, most participants (27 of 32) expressed willingness to participate in a future long-term brown rice intervention study. These results provide valuable information for the design of the future brown rice intervention trial and highlight the importance of increasing awareness about the nutritional value of brown rice.
20656285	Lead is a well-known neurotoxic metal and one of the most toxic chemicals in a child's environment. The aim of this study was to assess early-life lead exposure in a pristine rural area of Bangladesh. The exposure was expected to be very low because of the absence of vehicle traffic and polluting industries. Lead was measured in erythrocytes, urine, and breast milk of 500 randomly selected pregnant women, participating in a randomized food and micronutrient supplementation trial in Matlab (MINIMat). Lead was also measured in urine of their children at 1.5 and 5 years of age, and in rice, well water, cooking pots, and materials used for walls and roof. All measurements were performed using ICPMS. We found that the women had relatively high median erythrocyte lead levels, which increased considerably from early pregnancy to late lactation (81-136microg/kg), probably due to release from bone. Urinary lead concentrations were unchanged during pregnancy (median approximately 3.5microg/L) and non-linearly associated with maternal blood lead levels. Children, at 1.5 and 5 years of age, had a median urinary lead concentration of 4microg/L, i.e., similar to that in their mothers. Rice, the staple food in Matlab, collected from 63 homes of the study sample, contained 1-89microg/kg (median 13microg/kg) dry weight and seems to be an important source of lead exposure. Other sources of exposure may be cooking pots and metal sheet roof material, which were found to release up to 380 and 4200microg/L, respectively, into acidic solutions. Based on breast milk lead concentrations (median 1.3microg/L) a median daily intake of 1.2microg was estimated for 3 months old infants. However, alternatives to breast-feeding are likely to contain more lead, especially rice-based formula. To conclude, lead exposure in women and their children in a remote unpolluted area was found to be surprisingly high, which may be due to their living conditions.
20656392	Monomethylmercury (CH3Hg+ and its complexes; MeHg hereafter) is a known developmental neurotoxin. Recent studies have shown that rice (Oryza sativa L.) grain grown from mercury (Hg) mining areas may contain elevated MeHg concentrations, raising concerns over the health of local residents who consume rice on a daily basis. An analytical method employing high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC)--inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS) following enzymatic hydrolysis was developed to analyze the speciation of MeHg in uncooked and cooked white rice grain grown from the vicinity of a Hg mine in China. The results revealed that the MeHg in the uncooked rice is present almost exclusively as CH3Hg-L-cysteinate (CH3HgCys), a complex that is thought to be responsible for the transfer of MeHg across the blood-brain and placental barriers. Although cooking does not change the total Hg or total MeHg concentration in rice, no CH3HgCys is measurable after cooking, suggesting that most, if not all, of the CH3HgCys is converted to other forms of MeHg, the identity and toxicity of which remain elusive.
20657067	In clinical cholera, a 3-day course of antibiotic complements extensive rehydration therapy by reducing stool volume, shortening the illness, and averting death. However, antibiotic therapy, which has lifesaving implications for cholera, is often hindered due to multidrug resistance in Vibrio cholerae, the cause of cholera. Crude aqueous mixture and water soluble methanol extract from leaf and bark of Psidium guajava, a tropical fruit guava of the family Myrtaceae, showed strong antibacterial activity against multidrug-resistant V. cholerae O1. The in vitro minimum inhibitory concentration of the crude aqueous mixture and water soluble methanol extract, which was bactericidal against 10(7) CFU/mL of V. cholerae was determined to be 1,250 microg/mL and 850 microg/mL, respectively. The antibacterial activity of P. guajava was stable at 100 degrees C for 15-20 min, suggesting nonprotein nature of the active component. The growth of V. cholerae in rice oral rehydration saline (ORS) was completely inhibited when 10 mg/mL (wt/vol) of crude aqueous mixture was premixed with the ORS in a ratio of 1:7 (vol. extract/vol. ORS). P. guajava, which is widely distributed in Bangladesh, thus offers great potential for use in indigenous, herbal medicine for controlling epidemics of cholera.
20657172	Through map-based cloning we determined TRICHOME BIREFRINGENCE (TBR) to belong to a plant-specific, yet anonymous gene family with 46 members in Arabidopsis thaliana. These genes all encode the domain of unknown function 231 (DUF231). TBR and its homolog TRICHOME BIREFRINGENCE-LIKE3 (TBL3) are transcriptionally coordinated with CELLULOSE SYNTHASE (CESA) genes, and loss of TBR or TBL3 results in decreased levels of crystalline secondary wall cellulose in trichomes and stems, respectively. Loss of TBR or TBL3 further results in increased pectin methylesterase (PME) activity and reduced pectin esterification in etiolated Arabidopsis hypocotyls. Together, the results suggest that DUF231 proteins might function in the maintenance of pectin- and probably homogalacturonan esterification, and that this is a requirement for normal secondary wall cellulose synthesis, at least in some tissues and organs. Here we expand the discussion about the role of TBL/DUF231 proteins in cell wall biology based on sequence and structure analyses. Our analysis revealed structural similarities of TBR with a rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase (RGAE) of Aspergillus aculeatus and the protein LUSTRIN A-LIKE (Oryza sativa). The implications of these findings in regard to TBL functions are discussed.
20659299	• CAROTENOID CLEAVAGE DIOXYGENASE (CCD) genes have been demonstrated to play an integral role in the control of branch development in model plants, including Arabidopsis, pea (Pisum sativum), petunia (Petunia hybrida) and rice (Oryza sativa). • Actinidia chinensis is a woody perennial plant grown for commercial production of kiwifruit. CCD7 and CCD8 genes were isolated from A. chinensis and these genes are predominantly expressed in the roots of kiwifruit. AcCCD7 and AcCCD8 were able to complement the corresponding Arabidopsis mutants max3 and max4. The function of AcCCD8 in branch development was determined in transgenic kiwifruit plants containing an RNAi construct for AcCCD8. • Reduction in expression of AcCCD8 correlated with an increase in branch development and delayed leaf senescence. • The CCD pathway for control of branch development is conserved across a wide range of species, including kiwifruit, a woody perennial.
20659300	• Arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi establish symbiotic associations with a wide range of plant species. AM fungi must then have the ability to suppress, neutralize or evade the plant defense response. We investigated the physiological and molecular responses of rice to inoculation with the AM fungus Glomus intraradices, focusing on the relevance of the plant defense response during the symbiotic mycorrhizal interaction. • Defense gene expression analysis and proteomic approaches were used. The impact of defense gene expression on the mycorrhizal process was analyzed using transgenic PRms (Pathogenesis-Related maize seed) rice plants, the PRms plants exhibiting constitutive expression of endogenous defense genes. • Inoculation with G. intraradices stimulated growth and biomass production in wild-type and PRms plants. Evidence is presented on the activation of the basal defense response in mycorrhizal rice roots. Analysis of the symbiotic proteome confirmed the accumulation of stress-related proteins in mycorrhizal roots, including PR proteins and antioxidant enzymes. Although constitutive expression of defense genes occurred in the roots of PRms plants, the symbiotic efficiency of G. intraradices in these plants was not affected. • These results suggest that AM fungi have evolved the capacity to circumvent defense mechanisms that are controlled by the plant's immune system.
20659347	Many studies have been done to find out the molecular mechanism of systemic acquired resistance (SAR) in plants in the past several decades. Numbers of researches have been carried out in the model plants such as arabidopsis, tobacco, rice and so on, however, with little work done in woody plants especially in fruit trees such as apple. Components of the pathway of SAR seem to be extremely conserved in the variety of species. Malus hupehensis, which is origin in China, is strong resistance with rootstock. In the study, we attempted to make the expression pattern of pathogenesis related (PR) genes which were downstream components of the SAR pathway in response to salicylic acid(SA), methyl jasmonate(MeJA) and 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylic acid(ACC) in Malus hupehensis. In order to analyze the expression pattern, the partial sequence of three PR genes from Malus hupehensis, MhPR1, MhPR5 and MhPR8 was isolated. These three PR genes were induced by SA, MeJA and ACC. However, MhPR1, MhPR5 and MhPR8 performed a distinct pattern of expression in different plant organs. MhPR5 and MhPR8 were basal expression in leaves, stems and roots, and MhPR1 was basal expression only in stems. The expression of MhPR1, MhPR5 and MhPR8 was enhanced during the first 48 h post-induced with SA, MeJA and ACC. The results showed that a distinct pattern of expression of PR genes in Malus hupehensis which differed from the previous reports on model plants arabidopsis, tobacco and rice. MhPR1, MhPR5 and MhPR8 were induced by SA, MeJA and ACC, which were regarded as the marker genes in the SAR response in Malus hupehensis. In contrast with herbal plants, there could be specific signal pathway in response to SA, JA and ET for woody plants.
20659758	Productivity of red and lateritic soils is low because of their acidity and deficiencies in few essential nutrients viz., nitrogen, phosphorus, calcium, zinc, boron, molybdenum etc. We compared the effectiveness of basic slag, a low-cost liming material, with that of calcite as an ameliorant for these soils using mustard followed by rice as test crops. Experiments were conducted with three levels of each of basic slag and calcite along with a control on farmers' fields at 14 different locations. Influence of farmyard manure (FYM) and poultry manure (PM) on the effectiveness of the slag was also tested. On an average, basic slag performed better than calcite in increasing yields of both mustard and rice and left over higher amounts of available Ca, Si and Zn in residual soils. The slag also improved N, P, K and Ca nutrition of mustard and Si and Zn nutrition of rice with a favorable benefit:cost (B:C) ratio over the calcite (4.82 vs. 1.44). Effectiveness of the basic slag improved when it was applied in combination with FYM or PM (B:C, 5.83 and 6.27). Basic slag can, therefore, be advocated for use in the acidic red and lateritic soils for economically improving their productivity.
20660015	Small RNAs are well described in higher eukaryotes such as mammals and plants; however, knowledge in simple eukaryotes such as filamentous fungi is limited. In this study, we discovered and characterized methylguanosine-capped and polyadenylated small RNAs (CPA-sRNAs) by using differential RNA selection, full-length cDNA cloning and 454 transcriptome sequencing of the rice blast fungus Magnaporthe oryzae. This fungus causes blast, a devastating disease on rice, the principle food staple for over half the world's population. CPA-sRNAs mapped primarily to the transcription initiation and termination sites of protein-coding genes and were positively correlated with gene expression, particularly for highly expressed genes including those encoding ribosomal proteins. Numerous CPA-sRNAs also mapped to rRNAs, tRNAs, snRNAs, transposable elements and intergenic regions. Many other 454 sequence reads could not be mapped to the genome; however, inspection revealed evidence for non-template additions and chimeric sequences. CPA-sRNAs were independently confirmed using a high affinity variant of eIF-4E to capture 5'-methylguanosine-capped RNA followed by 3'-RACE sequencing. These results expand the repertoire of small RNAs in filamentous fungi.
20660080	Rrp46 was first identified as a protein component of the eukaryotic exosome, a protein complex involved in 3' processing of RNA during RNA turnover and surveillance. The Rrp46 homolog, CRN-5, was subsequently characterized as a cell death-related nuclease, participating in DNA fragmentation during apoptosis in Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we report the crystal structures of CRN-5 and rice Rrp46 (oRrp46) at a resolution of 3.9 A and 2.0 A, respectively. We found that recombinant human Rrp46 (hRrp46), oRrp46, and CRN-5 are homodimers, and that endogenous hRrp46 and oRrp46 also form homodimers in a cellular environment, in addition to their association with a protein complex. Dimeric oRrp46 had both phosphorolytic RNase and hydrolytic DNase activities, whereas hRrp46 and CRN-5 bound to DNA without detectable nuclease activity. Site-directed mutagenesis in oRrp46 abolished either its DNase (E160Q) or RNase (K75E/Q76E) activities, confirming the critical importance of these residues in catalysis or substrate binding. Moreover, CRN-5 directly interacted with the apoptotic nuclease CRN-4 and enhanced the DNase activity of CRN-4, suggesting that CRN-5 cooperates with CRN-4 in apoptotic DNA degradation. Taken together all these results strongly suggest that Rrp46 forms a homodimer separately from exosome complexes and, depending on species, is either a structural or catalytic component of the machinery that cleaves DNA during apoptosis.
20660496	Drought is the most important factor limiting rice productivity in the rainfed areas of Asia. In this study, 48 pyramiding lines (PLs) and their recurrent parent, IR64, were evaluated over two years for their yield performances and related traits under severe drought stress at the reproductive stage (RS), the vegetative stage (VS) and irrigated control in order to understand the relationship between drought tolerance (DT) and yield potential (YP) in rice and their underlying mechanisms. When compared with IR64, all PLs had significantly improved DT to RS and 36 PLs also had significantly improved DT to VS. In addition, 17 PLs had higher YP than IR64 and the remaining 31 PLs had a similar YP IR64 under irrigated conditions. Detailed characterization of the PLs revealed three possible mechanisms that functioned together to contribute to their improved DT. The most important mechanism was dehydration avoidance (DA), characterized by significantly higher growth rate and biomass of all PLs than IR64 under stress and no reduction in biomass under control conditions. The second mechanism was efficient partitioning, characterized by improved harvest index in all PLs compared with IR64, resulting primarily from heavier grain weight and/or higher spikelet fertility under control conditions, which was the major constituent of the improved YP in the 17 best performing PLs. Drought escape (DE) by accelerated heading under drought was the third mechanism that contributed to DT of the PLs to RS. The considerable variation in the measured traits among the PLs with similar levels of DT and YP implies the complex genetic control of the mechanisms for DT/YP and offers opportunities to improve DT and YP further by fine-tuning of a small number of QTLs segregating among the PLs using MAS. Finally, our results indicate that selection for yield plus some secondary traits under appropriate type(s) of stress and non-stress conditions similar to the target environments are critically important for improving both DT and YP in rice.
20662379	Clostridium cellulovorans is an anaerobic, mesophilic bacterium that efficiently degrades native substrates in soft biomass such as corn fibre and rice straw by producing an extracellular enzyme complex called the cellulosomes. By examining genome sequences from multiple Clostridium species, comparative genomics offers new insight into genome evolution and the way natural selection moulds functional DNA sequence evolution. Recently, we reported the whole genome sequence of C. cellulovorans. A total of 57 cellulosomal genes were found in the C. cellulovorans genome and coded for not only carbohydrate-active enzymes but also lipase, peptidase and proteinase inhibitors, in addition to two novel genes encoding scaffolding proteins CbpB and CbpC. Interestingly, the genome size of C. cellulovorans was about 1 Mbp larger than that of other cellulosome-producing clostridia: mesophilic C. cellulolyticum and thermophilic C. thermocellum. Since the C. cellulovorans genome included not only cellulosomal genes but also a large number of genes encoding non-cellulosomal enzymes, the genome expansion of C. cellulovorans included genes more related to degradation of polysaccharides, such as hemicelluloses and pectins, than to cellulose. In this review, we propose a strategy for industrial applications such as biofuel production using enhanced mesophilic cellulosome- and solvent-producing clostridia.
20663087	Membrane trafficking between the plasma membrane (PM) and intracellular compartments is an important process that regulates the deposition and metabolism of cell wall polysaccharides. Dynamin-related proteins (DRPs), which function in membrane tubulation and vesiculation are closely associated with cell wall biogenesis. However, the molecular mechanisms by which DRPs participate in cell wall formation are poorly understood. Here, we report the functional characterization of Brittle Culm3 (BC3), a gene encoding OsDRP2B. Consistent with the expression of BC3 in mechanical tissues, the bc3 mutation reduces mechanical strength, which results from decreased cellulose content and altered secondary wall structure. OsDRP2B, one of three members of the DRP2 subfamily in rice (Oryza sativa L.), was identified as an authentic membrane-associated dynamin via in vitro biochemical analyses. Subcellular localization of fluorescence-tagged OsDRP2B and several compartment markers in protoplast cells showed that this protein not only lies at the PM and the clathrin-mediated vesicles, but also is targeted to the trans-Golgi network (TGN). An FM4-64 uptake assay in transgenic plants that express green fluorescent protein-tagged OsDRP2B verified its involvement in an endocytic pathway. BC3 mutation and overexpression altered the abundance of cellulose synthase catalytic subunit 4 (OsCESA4) in the PM and in the endomembrane systems. All of these findings lead us to conclude that OsDRP2B participates in the endocytic pathway, probably as well as in post-Golgi membrane trafficking. Mutation of OsDRP2B disturbs the membrane trafficking that is essential for normal cellulose biosynthesis of the secondary cell wall, thereby leading to inferior mechanical properties in rice plants.
20663089	The pathogen-induced plant defense signaling network consists of multiple components, although only some of them are characterized. Most of the known components function either as activators or repressors in host-pathogen interactions. Here we report that a mitogen-activated protein kinase, OsMPK6, functions both as an activator and a repressor in rice resistance against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), the causal organism of bacterial blight disease. Activation of OsMPK6 resulted in the formation of lesion mimics and local resistance to Xoo, accompanied by the accumulation of salicylic acid (SA) and jasmonic acid (JA), and the induced expression of SA- and JA-signaling genes. Nuclear localization of OsMPK6 was essential for local resistance, suggesting that modulating the expression of defense-responsive genes through transcription regulators may be the primary mechanism of OsMPK6-mediated local resistance. The knock-out of OsMPK6 resulted in enhanced Xoo resistance, increased accumulation of SA and enhanced resistance to X. oryzae pv. oryzicola, the causal organism of bacterial streak disease, in systemic tissues. Xoo infection induced the expression of PR1a, the marker gene of systemic acquired resistance (SAR), in systemic health tissues of OsMPK6-knock-out plants. These results suggest that OsMPK6 negatively regulates SAR. Thus OsMPK6 is a two-faced player in the rice-Xoo interaction.
20663584	In rice (Oryza sativa), approximately 60-100% of the carbon in mature grains originates from CO(2) assimilation during the grain-filling period, with the flag leaf as the most important contributor to the dry weight accumulation in grains. It is therefore important to understand molecular mechanisms of flag leaf senescence. To investigate the regulation of the metabolic network during leaf senescence, changes in protein expression were analyzed using a comparative proteomic approach during senescence of flag leaves in rice grown under field conditions. A total of 170 differentially expressed proteins during senescence of flag leaves were identified by mass spectrometry. Of these, there were 48 down-regulated proteins and 122 up-regulated proteins, corresponding to total 124 unique proteins. These identified proteins are involved in different cellular responses and metabolic processes, including photosynthesis, photorespiration, glycolysis, cell defense, redox homeostasis, signal transduction, protein synthesis, folding and assembly. Based on the abundance changes of these proteins, together with their putative functions and participation in physiological processes, we propose protein networks of carbon metabolism at the protein level during leaf senescence. These networks illustrate, for the first time, an overview of the regulations of carbon metabolic reactions occurring during leaf senescence.
20663612	Experiments to evaluate the potential ability of the nematode-trapping fungus Duddingtonia flagrans (Isolate CG768) to prey on the Ancylostoma spp. dog infective larvae (L(3)) in pasteurized soil were performed through several laboratory assays. A microcosm approach was used with increasing fungal concentrations in an inoculum of a chlamydospore water suspension. The highest fungal concentrations provide a more consistent larval reduction than the lowest concentrations, but no difference was observed from 10,000 to 25,000 chlamydospores per grain of soil. When using D. flagrans in a water suspension, in white rice and in milled maize, there were reductions in the larval population of 72.0%, 78.4% and 79.4%, respectively, but there was no difference between white rice and milled maize (p<0.05). To evaluate the nematode control by D. flagrans inoculated in milled maize at 10,000 chlamydospores per grain of soil under greenhouse conditions, observations were performed at 10, 15, 20, 25 and 30 days after inoculation and the percent reduction in the larval population was 61.4%, 73.2%, 70.8%, 64.5% and 57%, respectively (p<0.05). There was an inverse relationship between the number of L(3) recovered from the soil and the total days of exposure to the fungus (p<0.05). These results showed that D. flagrans could present some potential to be used as a non-chemotherapeutic alternative for regulation of Ancylostoma spp. populations in the environment.
20663662	Cost effective use of lignocellulosic biomass for bio-based chemical production requires the discovery of novel strains and processes. Lactobacillus pentosus JH5XP5 is a carbon catabolite repression negative mutant which utilizes glucose and pentoses derived from lignocellulosic biomass in the media simultaneously. With a broad range of carbon substrates, L. pentosus JH5XP5 produced a significant amount of ethanol without acetate formation. The yields of ethanol were 2.0- to 2.5-fold higher than those of lactate when glucose, galactose or maltose was used either as a single carbon source or simultaneously with glucose. L. pentosus JH5XP5 was successfully used in an integrated process of simultaneous saccharification and mixed sugar fermentation of rice straw hydrolysate. During the fermentation, the enzyme activities for the saccharification of cellulose were not diminished. Moreover glucose, xylose, and arabinose sugars derived from rice straw hyrolysate were consumed concurrently as if a single carbon source existed and no sugars or cellulosic fiber remained after the fermentation.
20663713	POPs, plant organellar DNA polymerases, have been isolated from various photosynthetic eukaryotes. Previously, we purified the native POP of Cyanidioschyzon merolae(CmPOP) from whole cellular extracts and showed that CmPOP has DNA polymerase activity with a high processivity and a 3'-5' exonuclease activity, and its expression is related to cell proliferation. In rice, the recombinant protein of POP has activities found in CmPOP, and high fidelity of POP has also been demonstrated. These facts suggest that POPs are involved in the replication of organellar genomes. POPs are also conserved in most non-opisthokont eukaryotes, which lack DNA polymerase γ (Polγ), a mitochondrial replication enzyme in opisthokonts (fungi and animals). The ciliateTetrahymena thermophilacontains a single gene for a putative POP (TetPOP). Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that TetPOP is localized in mitochondria, and TetPOP has been purified from mitochondria through a column chromatography series. Sensitivity to phosphonoacetate and dideoxyTTP was examined in POPs (TetPOP and CmPOP) or POP-containing organelles (chloroplasts of Arabidopsis) and other polymerases (DNA polymerase I and mitochondria of rat liver, which contain Polγ), and the results suggest that high sensitivity to phosphonoacetate is unique to POPs in Family-A DNA polymerases. Finally, we propose a model for the succession of organellar DNA polymerases.
20664725	The effect of dietary feeding of rice bran and phytic acid on the glucose metabolism in high fat-fed C57BL/6N mice fed was investigated. The mice were given with either a high fat diet only (HF group) or a high fat diet supplemented with rice bran (HF-RB group) or phytic acid (HF-PA group) for 7 weeks. The control mice (NC group) received a normal diet. At the end of the experimental period, the HF group exhibited substantially higher blood glucose level than the NC group. However, the HF-RB and HF-PA groups showed a marked decrease in the blood glucose level relative to HF mice. Furthermore, significantly higher glucokinase (GK) activity and lower phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase (PEPCK) activity were observed in HF-RB and HF-PA mice compared with that of the NC and HF ones. It was also found that the glucose-6-phosphatase (G6pase) activity and hepatic glycogen concentration were considerably higher in HF-RB and HF-PA groups, respectively, than that of the HF mice. These findings demonstrate that both rice bran and phytic acid could reduce the risk of high fat diet-induced hyperglycemia via regulation of hepatic glucose-regulating enzyme activities.
20666227	Silicon (Si) is the second most abundant element in the Earth's crust and exerts beneficial effects on plant growth and production by alleviating both biotic and abiotic stresses including diseases, pests, lodging, drought and nutrient imbalance. Silicon is taken up by the roots in the form ofsilicic acid, a noncharged molecule. Recently both influx (Lsil) and efflux (Lsi2) transporters for silicic acid have been identified in gramineous plants including rice, barley and maize. Lsil and its homologs are influx Si transporters, which belong to a Nod26-like major intrinsic protein (NIP) subfamily in the aquaporin protein family. They are responsible for the transport of Si from the external solution to the root cells. On the other hand, Lsi2 and its homologs are efflux Si transporters, belonging to putative anion transporters and are responsible for the transport of Si out of the cells toward the xylem. All influx transporters show polar localization at the distal side. Among efflux transporters, Lsi2 in rice shows polar localization at the proximal side, but that in barley and maize does not show polar localization. The cell-specificity of localization of Si transporters and expression patterns are different between species. Rice Si transporters are also permeable to arsenite.
20666456	Monascus-fermented red mold dioscorea (RMD) has been proven to possess greater hypolipidemic effect than red mold rice (RMR) even though they include equal levels of cholesterol-lowering agent monacolin K. However, higher concentrations of yellow pigments (monascin and ankaflavin) were found in RMD than in RMR. In this study, purified monascin and ankaflavin were administered to hyperlipidemic hamsters for 8 weeks, respectively, to test whether these two compounds were novel hypolipidemic ingredients. In the statistical results, monascin and ankaflavin showed significant effect on lowering cholesterol, triglyceride, and low-density lipoprotein cholesterol levels in serum, as well as aorta lipid plaque (p < 0.05). Importantly, monascin and ankaflavin, unlike monacolin K, were able to perform up-regulation rather than down-regulation on high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C) levels in serum. This finding not only explained why RMD showed greater hypolipidemic and HDL-C-raising effect than RMR but also proved that monascin and ankaflavin would act as novel and potent hypolipidemic ingredients.
20666931	Engineering the C4 photosynthetic pathway into C3 crops has the potential to dramatically increase the yields of major C3 crops. The genetic control of features involved in C4 photosynthesis are still far from being understood; which partially explains why we have gained little success in C4 engineering thus far. Next generation sequencing techniques and other high throughput technologies are offering an unprecedented opportunity to elucidate the developmental and evolutionary processes of C4 photosynthesis. Two contrasting hypotheses about the evolution of C4 photosynthesis exist, i.e. the master switch hypothesis and the incremental gain hypothesis. These two hypotheses demand two different research strategies to proceed in parallel to maximize the success of C4 engineering. In either case, systems biology research will play pivotal roles in identifying key regulatory elements controlling development of C4 features, identifying essential biochemical and anatomical features required to achieve high photosynthetic efficiency, elucidating genetic mechanisms underlining C4 differentiation and ultimately identifying viable routes to engineer C4 rice. As a highly interdisciplinary project, the C4 rice project will have far-reaching impacts on both basic and applied research related to agriculture in the 21st century.
20666985	To evaluate the colonization process of sugarcane plantlets and hydroponically grown rice seedlings by Gluconacetobacter diazotrophicus strain PAL5 marked with the gusA and gfp reporter genes. Sugarcane plantlets inoculated in vitro with PAL5 carrying the gfp::gusA plasmid pHRGFPGUS did not present green fluorescence, but beta-glucuronidase (GUS)-stained bacteria could be observed inside sugarcane roots. To complement this existing inoculation methodology for micropropagated sugarcane with a more rapid colonization assay, we employed hydroponically grown gnotobiotic rice seedlings to study PAL5-plant interaction. PAL5 could be isolated from the root surface (10(8) CFU g(-1)) and from surface-disinfected root and stem tissues (10(4) CFU g(-1)) of inoculated plants, suggesting that PAL5 colonized the internal plant tissues. Light microscopy confirmed the presence of bacteria inside the root tissue. After inoculation of rice plantlets with PAL5 marked with the gfp plasmid pHRGFPTC, bright green fluorescent bacteria could be seen colonizing the rice root surface, mainly at the sites of lateral root emergence, at root caps and on root hairs. The plasmids pHRGFPGUS and pHRGFPTC are valid tools to mark PAL5 and monitor the colonization of micropropagated sugarcane and hydroponic rice seedlings. These tools are of use to: (i) study PAL5 mutants affected in bacteria-plant interactions, (ii) monitor plant colonization in real time and (iii) distinguish PAL5 from other bacteria during the study of mixed inoculants.
20667909	In order to understand the molecular mechanisms underlying effects of feeding rice protein on lipid and glucose homeostasis, weanling rats were fed AIN-93G diets made with casein or rice protein isolate (RPI) for 14 d. Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR)alpha genes and proteins involved in fatty acid degradation were upregulated by feeding RPI (P < 0.05), accompanied by increased promoter binding and nuclear expression of PPARalpha and its heterodimerization partner retinoid X receptor (P < 0.05). Effects of RPI feeding on hepatic PPARgamma signaling were significant but less robust. Feeding RPI also increased hepatic genes involved in cholesterol metabolism and transport. However, feeding RPI had no effect on binding of liver X-receptor (LXR)alpha to the cytochrome P450 (CYP)7A1 promoter. The effect of RPI feeding on PPARalpha signaling appeared to be direct and was reversed when RPI diets were switched to casein. In another experiment, male Sprague-Dawley rats were fed casein diets from postnatal day (PND) 24 to PND64 or were fed high fat 'Western' diets containing 0.5% cholesterol made with either casein or RPI. Increased liver triglyceride content, hypercholesterolemia and insulin resistance in the 'Western' diet-fed rats were partially prevented by feeding RPI (P < 0.05). mRNA and protein expression of hepatic enzymes involved in fatty acid synthesis were suppressed by feeding 'Western diets' containing RPI (P < 0.05), despite a lack of effects on nuclear concentrations of sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c. These data suggest that attenuation of metabolic syndrome observed in RPI-fed rats after consumption of diets high in fat and cholesterol occur as a result of improved lipid and glucose homeostasis partly as a result of activation of PPARs.
20668003	We present an annotation pipeline that accurately predicts exon-intron structures and protein-coding sequences (CDSs) on the basis of full-length cDNAs (FLcDNAs). This annotation pipeline was used to identify genes in 10 plant genomes. In particular, we show that interspecies mapping of FLcDNAs to genomes is of great value in fully utilizing FLcDNA resources whose availability is limited to several species. Because low sequence conservation at 5'- and 3'-ends of FLcDNAs between different species tends to result in truncated CDSs, we developed an improved algorithm to identify complete CDSs by the extension of both ends of truncated CDSs. Interspecies mapping of 71 801 monocot FLcDNAs to the Oryza sativa genome led to the detection of 22 142 protein-coding regions. Moreover, in comparing two mapping programs and three ab initio prediction programs, we found that our pipeline was more capable of identifying complete CDSs. As demonstrated by monocot interspecies mapping, in which nucleotide identity between FLcDNAs and the genome was ∼80%, the resultant inferred CDSs were sufficiently accurate. Finally, we applied both inter- and intraspecies mapping to 10 monocot and dicot genomes and identified genes in 210 551 loci. Interspecies mapping of FLcDNAs is expected to effectively predict genes and CDSs in newly sequenced genomes.
20668062	Discovering gene sets underlying the expression of a given phenotype is of great importance, as many phenotypes are the result of complex gene-gene interactions. Gene coexpression networks, built using a set of microarray samples as input, can help elucidate tightly coexpressed gene sets (modules) that are mixed with genes of known and unknown function. Functional enrichment analysis of modules further subdivides the coexpressed gene set into cofunctional gene clusters that may coexist in the module with other functionally related gene clusters. In this study, 45 coexpressed gene modules and 76 cofunctional gene clusters were discovered for rice (Oryza sativa) using a global, knowledge-independent paradigm and the combination of two network construction methodologies. Some clusters were enriched for previously characterized mutant phenotypes, providing evidence for specific gene sets (and their annotated molecular functions) that underlie specific phenotypes.
20668253	Rural Bangladeshi populations have a high risk of zinc deficiency due to their consumption of a predominantly rice-based diet with few animal-source foods. Breeding rice for higher zinc content would offer a sustainable approach to increase the population's zinc intakes. The objectives of the study were to quantify usual rice and zinc intakes in young children and their adult female primary caregivers and to simulate the potential impact of zinc-biofortified rice on their zinc intakes. We measured dietary intake in a representative sample of 480 children (ages 24-48 mo) and their female caregivers residing in 2 rural districts of northern Bangladesh. Dietary intakes were estimated by 12-h weighed records and 12-h recall in homes on 2 nonconsecutive days. Serum zinc concentrations were determined in a subsample of children. The median (25th, 75th percentile) rice intakes of children and female caregivers were 134 (99, 172) and 420 (365, 476) g raw weight/d, respectively. The median zinc intakes were 2.5 (2.1, 2.9) and 5.4 (4.8, 6.1) mg/d in children and women, respectively. Twenty-four percent of children had low serum zinc concentrations (< 9.9 micromol/L) after adjusting for elevated acute phase proteins. Rice was the main source of zinc intake, providing 49 and 69% of dietary zinc to children and women, respectively. The prevalence of inadequate zinc intakes was high in both the children (22%) and women (73-100%). Simulated increases in rice zinc content to levels currently achievable through selective breeding decreased the estimated prevalence of inadequacy to 9% in children and 20-85% in women, depending on the assumptions used to estimate absorption. Rural Bangladeshi children and women have inadequate intakes of zinc. Zinc biofortification of rice has the potential to markedly improve the zinc adequacy of their diets.
20668408	This study explored the chronic and harmful effects of different doses of the triazole fungicide, tebuconazole, on the growth, and metabolic and enzymatic variations in the filamentous paddy field cyanobacterium, Westiellopsis prolifica Janet. The growth of the cyanobacterium was determined by an estimation of the change in pigment contents. Chlorophyll-a, carotenoids and accessory pigments such as phycocyanin, allophycocyanin and phycoerythrin, were shown to decline over a 16-day period by a factor of 92%, 93%, 83%, 95% and 100%, respectively, with increasing doses of the fungicide. Metabolic and enzymatic activities were also adversely affected. Over the 16 days, a gradual rise in the total phenol content was recorded when Westiellopsis prolifica Janet was treated with 60 ppm of the fungicide, despite the reduction in carbohydrates, proteins and amino acids by 96%, 92% and 90%, respectively. Moreover, the enzymes nitrate reductase (NR), glutamine synthetase (GS) and succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) also registered reductions of 93%, 90% and 98%, respectively. This study indicates that tebuconazole, although an important fungicide used extensively in rice fields, exhibits an inhibitory effect on the growth and metabolic activities of Westiellopsis prolifica Janet and hence possibly on other varieties as well.
20668931	Many studies have been recently reported that veterinary antibiotics released into the environment have a detrimental effect on humans such as the occurrence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. However, only limited information is available regarding to the release of antibiotics in environmental compartments in Korea. Objectives of this study were to evaluate the concentrations of antibiotics in water, sediment, and soil adjacent to a composting facility in Korea and to determine the dilution effects of antibiotics when released into the environment. Seven antibiotics of chlortetracycline, oxytetracycline, tetracycline, sulfamethazine, sulfamethoxazole, sulfathiazole, and tylosin were evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry following pretreatment using solid-phase extraction to clean the samples. Results showed that the highest concentration of each antibiotic in both aqueous and solid samples was detected from a site adjacent to the composting facility. We also found that the studied water, sediment, and soil samples are contaminated by veterinary antibiotics throughout comparison with studies from other countries. However, relatively lower concentrations of each antibiotic were observed from the rice paddy soil located at the bottom of the water stream. Further research is necessary to continuously monitor the antibiotics release into ecosystems, thereby developing an environmental risk assessment.
20669401	The anti-inflammatory effects of cyanidin-3-O-beta-D-glycoside (C3G), a major constituent of black rice (BR), and its metabolites, cyanidin and protocatechuic acid (PA), were assessed in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced RAW 264.7 cells and carrageenan-induced inflammation in air pouches in BALB/c mice. BR, C3G and its metabolites suppressed the production of the proinflammatory cytokines, TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta, and the inflammatory mediators, NO and prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), as well as the gene expression of nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) in RAW 264.7 cells. These agents also inhibited the phosphorylation of I kappaB-alpha, the nuclear translocation of NF-kappaB, and the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases. Furthermore, these agents significantly inhibited the leukocyte number and the levels of TNF-alpha, PGE2, and protein in the exudates of the air pouch in carrageenan-treated mice, as well as COX-2 expression and NF-kappaB activation. Among the test agents, PA most potently inhibited these inflammatory mediators in vivo and in vitro. Based on these findings, if BR is orally administered, its main constituent, C3G, may be metabolized to cyanidin and/or PA, which express potent anti-inflammatory effects by regulating NF-kappaB and MAPK activation.
20670614	Carotenoids and their apocarotenoid derivatives play essential physiological and developmental roles and provide plants tolerance to a variety of stresses. Carotenoid cleavage dioxygenases mediate the degradation of carotenoids to apocarotenoids. A better understanding of biosynthesis vs. degradation could be useful for controlling carotenoid levels leading to improved plant fitness and/or enhanced content of nutritionally valuable carotenoids. The Poaceae (grass) plant family contains many crops of agronomic value. Therefore this study focused on characterizing the carotenoid dioxygenase gene family in the grass species maize, rice, and sorghum with comparison made to newly identified gene families in two non-seed plants as well as an alga and previously identified eudicot genes. Genome analysis was used to map grass genes encoding the carotenoid dioxygenases to chromosome locations. Sequences of encoded proteins were phylogenetically compared. CCD8b was identified as a new class of cleavage dioxygenases that may play a specialized role in apocarotenoid biogenesis. A simple PCR assay was developed to measure CCD1 gene copy number which is known to vary in maize. Using a panel of maize inbred lines varying in carotenoid content, linear regression analysis revealed a statistically significant negative correlation between copy number of CCD1 and carotenoid content, an effect likely mediated through the resulting elevated levels of endosperm CCD1 transcripts in high copy number lines. The PCR assay adds to a growing toolbox for metabolic engineering of maize endosperm carotenoids. This new tool can be used to select maize lines that are less likely to promote endosperm carotenoid degradation, thus predicting optimal results in metabolic engineering of endosperm provitamin A and/or nonprovitamin A carotenoids.
20670635	Here we describe a system to assay homologous recombination during the complete life cycle of rice (Oryza sativa L.). Rice plants were transformed with two copies of non-functional GUS reporter overlap fragments as recombination substrate. Recombination was observed in all plant organs examined, from the seed stage until the flowering stage of somatic plant development. Embryogenic cells exhibited the highest recombination ability with an average of 3x10(-5) recombination events per genome, which is about 10-fold of that observed in root cells, and two orders of that observed in leaf cells. Histological analysis revealed that recombination events occurred in diverse cell types, but preferentially in cells with small size. Examples of this included embryogenic cells in callus, phloem cells in the leaf vein, and cells located in the root apical meristem. Steady state RNA analysis revealed that the expression levels of rice Rad51 homologs are positively correlated with increased recombination rates in embryogenic calli, roots and anthers. Finally, radiation treatment of plantlets from distinct recombination lines increased the recombination frequency to different extents. These results showed that homologous recombination frequency can be effectively measured in rice using a transgene reporter assay. This system will facilitate the study of DNA damage signaling and homologous recombination in rice, a model monocot.
20671108	Vitamin A deficiency is a public health problem in a large number of countries. Biofortification of major staple crops (wheat [Triticum aestivum], rice [Oryza sativa], maize [Zea mays], and potato [Solanum tuberosum]) with β-carotene has the potential to alleviate this nutritional problem. Previously, we engineered transgenic "Golden" potato tubers overexpressing three bacterial genes for β-carotene synthesis (CrtB, CrtI, and CrtY, encoding phytoene synthase, phytoene desaturase, and lycopene β-cyclase, respectively) and accumulating the highest amount of β-carotene in the four aforementioned crops. Here, we report the systematic quantitation of carotenoid metabolites and transcripts in 24 lines carrying six different transgene combinations under the control of the 35S and Patatin (Pat) promoters. Low levels of B-I expression are sufficient for interfering with leaf carotenogenesis, but not for β-carotene accumulation in tubers and calli, which requires high expression levels of all three genes under the control of the Pat promoter. Tubers expressing the B-I transgenes show large perturbations in the transcription of endogenous carotenoid genes, with only minor changes in carotenoid content, while the opposite phenotype (low levels of transcriptional perturbation and high carotenoid levels) is observed in Golden (Y-B-I) tubers. We used hierarchical clustering and pairwise correlation analysis, together with a new method for network correlation analysis, developed for this purpose, to assess the perturbations in transcript and metabolite levels in transgenic leaves and tubers. Through a "guilt-by-profiling" approach, we identified several endogenous genes for carotenoid biosynthesis likely to play a key regulatory role in Golden tubers, which are candidates for manipulations aimed at the further optimization of tuber carotenoid content.
20671772	Most organisms have internal circadian clocks that mediate responses to daily environmental changes in order to synchronize biological functions to the correct times of the day. Previous studies have focused on plants found in temperate and sub-tropical climates, and little is known about the circadian transcriptional networks of plants that typically grow under conditions with relatively constant day lengths and temperatures over the year. In this study we conducted a genomic and computational analysis of the circadian biology of Carica papaya, a tropical tree. We found that predicted papaya circadian clock genes cycle with the same phase as Arabidopsis genes. The patterns of time-of-day overrepresentation of circadian-associated promoter elements were nearly identical across papaya, Arabidopsis, rice, and poplar. Evolution of promoter structure predicts the observed morning- and evening-specific expression profiles of the papaya PRR5 paralogs. The strong conservation of previously identified circadian transcriptional networks in papaya, despite its tropical habitat and distinct life-style, suggest that circadian timing has played a major role in the evolution of plant genomes, consistent with the selective pressure of anticipating daily environmental changes. Further studies could exploit this conservation to elucidate general design principles that will facilitate engineering plant growth pathways for specific environments. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s12042-008-9020-3) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
20672077	Nanoindentation processes in single crystal Ag thin film under different crystallographic orientations and various indenter widths are simulated by the quasicontinuum method. The nanoindentation deformation processes under influences of crystalline anisotropy and indenter size are investigated about hardness, load distribution, critical load for first dislocation emission and strain energy under the indenter. The simulation results are compared with previous experimental results and Rice-Thomson (R-T) dislocation model solution. It is shown that entirely different dislocation activities are presented under the effect of crystalline anisotropy during nanoindentation. The sharp load drops in the load-displacement curves are caused by the different dislocation activities. Both crystalline anisotropy and indenter size are found to have distinct effect on hardness, contact stress distribution, critical load for first dislocation emission and strain energy under the indenter. The above quantities are decreased at the indenter into Ag thin film along the crystal orientation with more favorable slip directions that easy trigger slip systems; whereas those will increase at the indenter into Ag thin film along the crystal orientation with less or without favorable slip directions that hard trigger slip systems. The results are shown to be in good agreement with experimental results and R-T dislocation model solution.
20673059	The bran fractions of certain varieties of sorghum (Sorghum bicolor) grain are rich sources of phytochemicals and antioxidants. In this article, the anti-inflammatory actions of extracts of select sorghum brans were evaluated in two experimental inflammatory systems: (1) the release of cytokines by lipopolysaccharide-activated peripheral blood mononuclear cells and (2) 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol acetate (TPA)-induced ear edema in mice. A 1:200 dilution of a 10% (wt/vol) ethanol extract of black sorghum bran significantly inhibited the secretion of the pro-inflammatory cytokines interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Ethanolic extracts of both black and sumac varieties of sorghum bran significantly reduced edema in inflamed ears as measured by ear thickness and ear punch weight 6 hours following TPA application. The degree of inhibition was similar to that observed with indomethacin. Black sorghum bran significantly diminished the increase in myeloperoxidase activity 24 hours following the application of TPA. No anti-inflammatory activity was observed with white and Mycogen sorghum bran varieties or with oat, wheat, or rice brans in the mouse ear model. The anti-inflammatory activity observed with these brans correlated with their phenolic content and antioxidant activity. These results demonstrate that select sorghum bran varieties possess significant anti-inflammatory activity.
20673187	The volatile essential oils from red and black rice bran were obtained by hydrodistillation using a clevenger-type apparatus, and the components of that oil were analyzed by capillary gas chromatography-mass spectroscopy (GC-MS). The present study involved characterizing the chemical compositions, their amounts and the anti-complement activities of red and black rice bran. The red rice bran essential oils yield was 0.031%, and GC-MS analysis revealed that its major constituents were (E)-β-ocimene (3.12%), nonanal (11.32%), (2E, 4E)-decadienal (2.54%), myristic acid (41.32%), geranyactone (2.41%) and methyl oleate (2.46%). The black rice bran essential oils yield was 0.053%, and GC-MS analysis revealed that its major constituents were nonanal (8.31%), acrylic acid (3.21%), 2-hydroxy-6-methylbenzaldehyde (2.81%), pelargonic acid (4.21%) and myrisitc acid (28.07%). The essential oils showed inhibitory activity against complement system with 50% inhibitory concentrations (IC(50)) values of 246 ppm (red rice bran) and 193 ppm (black rice bran). Also, myristic acid, nonanal, (E)-β-ocimene and pelargonic acid were tested against complement system. Pelargonic acid was shown to moderate activity (50% inhibitory concentration = 132 μM).
20673367	International travel and immigration have been related with an increase of imported malaria cases. This fact and climate change, prolonging the period favouring vector development, require an analysis of the malaria transmission resurgence risk in areas of southern Europe. Such a study is made for the first time in Spain. The Ebro Delta historically endemic area was selected due to its rice field landscape, the presence of only one vector, Anopheles atroparvus, with densities similar to those it presented when malaria was present, in a situation which pronouncedly differs from already assessed potential resurgence areas in other Mediterranean countries, such as France and Italy, where many different Anopheles species coexist and a different vector species dominates. The transmission risk was assessed analysing: 1) climate diagrams including the minimum temperature for Plasmodium falciparum and Plasmodium vivax development; 2) monthly evolution of the Gradient Model Risk (GMR) index, specifying transmission risk period and number of potential Plasmodium generations; 3) ecological characteristics using remote sensing images with the Eurasia Land Cover characteristics database and the monthly evolution of the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI); 4) evaluation of A. atroparvus population dynamics. Climatological analyses and GMR index show that a transmission risk presently exists, lasting from May until September for P. falciparum, and from May until October for P. vivax. The GMR index shows that the temperature increase does not actually mean a transmission risk increase if accompanied by a precipitation decrease reducing the number of parasite generations and transmission period. Nevertheless, this limitation is offset by the artificial flooding of the rice fields. Maximum NDVI values and A. atroparvus maximum abundance correspond to months with maximum growth of the rice fields. The Ebro Delta presents the ecological characteristics that favour transmission. The temperature increase has favoured a widening of the monthly potential transmission window with respect to when malaria was endemic. The combined application of modified climate diagrams and GMR index, together with spatial characterization conforms a useful tool for assessing potential areas at risk of malaria resurgence. NDVI is a good marker when dealing with a rice field area.
20674318	The present investigation was undertaken to study the effects of feeding a diet containing blended and interesterified fat to rats on thrombotic parameters such as platelet aggregation and eicosanoid levels in blood serum. Male Wistar rats were fed with a diet containing 10% fat from native; coconut oil (CNO), rice bran oil (RBO), sesame oil (SESO), blended; (CNO+RBO blend (B), CNO+SESO(B), or interesterified oils; CNO+RBO interesterified (I), CNO+SESO(I) for a period of 60 days. Rats given a diet containing blended oil of CNO+RBO(B) or CNO+SESO(B) showed a decrease in rate of ADP induced aggregation of platelets by 34% and 30%, respectively, compared to those fed with CNO. Aggregation induced by collagen was also reduced similarly in rats given blended or interesterified oils of CNO with RBO or SESO. Feeding interesterified oil CNO+RBO(I), and CNO+SESO(I) to rats also resulted in decrease in rate of ADP induced platelet aggregation by 37% and 34%, respectively, compared to rats fed with CNO. The prostacyclin/thromboxane ratio in serum was increased in rats fed with blended and interesterified oil compared to those fed with CNO. These results indicated that CNO when blended or interesterified with RBO or SESO exhibit antithrombotic effects as compared to the effect observed by feeding rats with CNO.
20674578	Fungal virulence has been mostly associated with cuticle-degrading enzymes that can be regulated depending on nutrient conditions. However, few studies have related fungal virulence to insect-toxic secreted proteins. Here, we describe how the presence of secreted toxic proteins may be linked to conidial virulence, which can be affected by nutrient factors. In this study we evaluated: (1) the virulence of the conidia of four Beauveria bassiana strains (EABb 01/103-Su, EABb 01/12-Su, EABb 01/88-Su and EABb 01/110-Su) grown on three different media (malt extract agar (MA), Rice (Rice), Sabouraud dextrose agar (SDA) and harvested from the cadavers of fungal-infected Galleria mellonella larvae (CAD) and (2) the toxicity of the crude soluble protein extracts (CSPEs) obtained from Adamek's liquid medium inoculated with these conidia. Conidial suspensions were obtained from the four media, assessed on G. mellonella larvae and used to produce CSPEs that were injected into healthy G. mellonella larvae. The larvae were also injected with conidia obtained from MA and CAD cultures to expose them to in vivo-secreted proteins. For all isolates, the CAD conidia were by far the most virulent, followed by conidia grown on SDA, Rice and MA. The injected CSPEs showed the same toxicity trends as the conidial suspensions. In addition, the outcomes of injection of the in vivo-secreted proteins showed that the toxic proteins secreted in vitro by the EABb 01/110-Su strain are not produced in vivo. However, the other strains produced toxic proteins both in vivo and in vitro, suggesting that these toxic proteins may be virulence factors involved in invertebrate pathogenesis.
20675574	Magnaporthe oryzae is the most damaging fungal pathogen of rice (Oryza sativa). In this study, we characterized the TIG1 transducin beta-like gene required for infectious growth and its interacting genes that are required for plant infection in this model phytopathogenic fungus. Tig1 homologs in yeast and mammalian cells are part of a conserved histone deacetylase (HDAC) transcriptional corepressor complex. The tig1 deletion mutant was nonpathogenic and defective in conidiogenesis. It had an increased sensitivity to oxidative stress and failed to develop invasive hyphae in plant cells. Using affinity purification and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we identified several Tig1-associated proteins, including two HDACs that are homologous to components of the yeast Set3 complex. Functional analyses revealed that TIG1, SET3, SNT1, and HOS2 were core components of the Tig1 complex in M. oryzae. The set3, snt1, and hos2 deletion mutants displayed similar defects as those observed in the tig1 mutant, but deletion of HST1 or HOS4 had no detectable phenotypes. Deletion of any of these core components of the Tig1 complex resulted in a significant reduction in HDAC activities. Our results showed that TIG1, like its putative yeast and mammalian orthologs, is one component of a conserved HDAC complex that is required for infectious growth and conidiogenesis in M. oryzae and highlighted that chromatin modification is an essential regulatory mechanism during plant infection.
2067564	Four recently described species. Fusarium nygamai, F. dlamini, F. beomiforme and F. napiforme and two uncertain taxa, F. nygamai from millet in Africa and Fusarium species from rice with Bakanae disease, were tested for toxicity and moniliformin production. Cultures grown on autoclaved corn were fed to groups of four one-day-old ducklings for 14 days. Isolates that caused the death of 3 or 4 out of 4 ducklings were considered to be toxic and analyzed for moniliformin. All 15 isolates of F. dlamini tested were nontoxic. The other taxa contained some isolates that were toxic to ducklings and produced moniliformin in corn cultures. This is the first report of moniliformin production by F. beomiforme (200-890 micrograms/g), and F. napiforme (16-388 micrograms/g), and by F. nygamai not obtained from millet in Africa (15-874 micrograms/g). The highest production of moniliformin was obtained from the 19 isolates of F. nygamai from millet in Africa (4300-18,200 micrograms/g) and the 15 isolates from rice with Bakanae disease (2300-19,300 micrograms/g). The taxonomic position of these two uncertain taxa should be re-evaluated.
20676379	Bacterial leaf blight (BLB), caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), gives rise to devastating crop losses in rice. Disease resistant rice cultivars are the most economical way to combat the disease. The TP309 cultivar is susceptible to infection by Xoo strain PXO99. A transgenic variety, TP309_Xa21, expresses the pattern recognition receptor Xa21, and is resistant. PXO99 big up tri, openraxST, a strain lacking the raxST gene, is able to overcome Xa21-mediated immunity. We used a single extraction solvent to demonstrate comprehensive metabolomics and transcriptomics profiling under sample limited conditions, and analyze the molecular responses of two rice lines challenged with either PXO99 or PXO99 big up tri, openraxST. LC-TOF raw data file filtering resulted in better within group reproducibility of replicate samples for statistical analyses. Accurate mass match compound identification with molecular formula generation (MFG) ranking of 355 masses was achieved with the METLIN database. GC-TOF analysis yielded an additional 441 compounds after BinBase database processing, of which 154 were structurally identified by retention index/MS library matching. Multivariate statistics revealed that the susceptible and resistant genotypes possess distinct profiles. Although few mRNA and metabolite differences were detected in PXO99 challenged TP309 compared to mock, many differential changes occurred in the Xa21-mediated response to PXO99 and PXO99 big up tri, openraxST. Acetophenone, xanthophylls, fatty acids, alkaloids, glutathione, carbohydrate and lipid biosynthetic pathways were affected. Significant transcriptional induction of several pathogenesis related genes in Xa21 challenged strains, as well as differential changes to GAD, PAL, ICL1 and Glutathione-S-transferase transcripts indicated limited correlation with metabolite changes under single time point global profiling conditions. ELECTRONIC SUPPLEMENTARY MATERIAL: The online version of this article (doi:10.1007/s11306-010-0218-7) contains supplementary material, which is available to authorized users.
20676521	We report the first occurrence of Telenomus podisi (Ashmead) and Trissolcus urichi (Crawford) parasitizing eggs of the Rice Stem Bug, Tibraca limbativentris (Stål), in Santa Catarina, Brazil. These species have a high potential of parasitization, pointing them as an alternative for biological control of T. limbativentris.
20676930	The leaching behavior of nitrogen was studied in single rice paddy production ecosystems in Tsukuba, Japan after 75 years of consistent fertilization regimes (no fertilizer, ammonium sulfate, a combination of composted rice straw with soybean cake, and fresh clover). During the 75-year period, management was unchanged with respect to rice planting density, irrigation, and net N fertilization for each field to which an N-source was added. Percolation water was collected, from May 2001 to April 2002, using porous suction cups installed in the fields at depths of 15, 40, and 60 cm. All water samples were taken to the laboratory for the measurement of both NH(4) (+)-N and NO(3) (-)-N concentrations using a continuous-flow nitrogen analyzer. The result indicated that there were significant differences in N leaching losses between treatments during the rice growing season. Total N leaching was significantly lower with the application of composted rice straw plus soybean cake (0.58 kg N ha(- 1)) than with ammonium sulfate (2.41 kg N ha(- 1)), which resulted in N leaching at a similar level to that with the fresh clover treatment (no significant difference). The majority of this N leaching was not due to NO(3) (-)-N loss, but to that of NH(4) (+)-N. The mean N leaching for all fertilizer treatments during the entire rice growing season was 1.58 kg N ha(- 1). Composted rice straw plus soybean cake produced leaching losses which were 65-75% lower than those with the application of fresh clover and ammonium sulfate. N accumulation resulting from nitrification in the fallow season could be a key source of nitrate-N leaching when fields become re-flooded before rice transplanting in the following year; particular attention should be paid to this phenomenon.
20677459	Considering that sorghum is a gluten free flour, it could be proposed as an ingredient to produce alternative bakery products for the subjects with Celiac Disease, since they do not have many food options available in the market. For this reason, the main goal of this study is to develop chocolate cookies with sorghum flour (Sorghum vulgare). The experimental design used was the simplex-lattice factor to compare the following variables: sorghum flour (50-100%), rice flour (0-50%) and corn starch (0-50%), totaling up to ten experiments. The formulations IX and X were selected as the ones with the highest sensorial scores The sorghum flour, regular chocolate cookies and gluten free cookies were submitted to physicochemical analysis. Physical and sensorial analysis using Quantitative Descriptive Analysis (QDA) and hedonic analysis were performed for the two cookies preparation. Sorghum flour presented characteristics compared with the described by the food regulation laws. The preparations that presented satisfactory sensorial characteristics were the ones that had 58 and 67% of sorghum flour, 8 and 17% of rice flour, 33 and 17% of corn starch, respectively. The performance for both IX and X formulations was 0,92 and the specific volume was 1,54 and 1.46 cm3/g, respectively. When compared with regular cookies, the differences on most of the sensorial attributes evaluated on sorghum cookies were not statistically significant (P < 0.05), except for the color and the odour. All the sensorial scores reached values equal or higher than 7 for both samples and most of them scored 8. The results showed the feasibility of including sorghum flour on the manufacture of gluten free cookies.
20677764	In this paper, we report a method to fabricate a series of surfaces with large-area ordered binary arrays by controllable dewetting. The binary structure arrays consist of an ordered-stripe array and droplet-row array. In order to expand the system, polystyrene (PS) and poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) are introduced in this experiment for investigation in detail. Through adjustment of the polymer solution concentration and the modified underlying pattern on substrate, the surface topographies can be controlled simply. Accordingly, three types of topographies with ordered binary arrays have been obtained by thermal annealing. These unique surfaces mimic the natural rice leaf structurally, which also displays anisotropic wettability for water droplet as natural surfaces. This method points out a new way for the manufacture of functional surfaces.
20678629	This paper reports the preparation of metsulfuron-methyl (MSM) imprinted polymer layer-coated silica nanoparticles toward analysis of trace sulfonylurea herbicides in complicated matrices. To induce the selective occurrence of surface polymerization, the polymerizable double bonds were first grafted at the surface of silica nanoparticles by the silylation. Afterwards, the MSM templates were imprinted into the polymer-coating layer through the interaction with functional monomers. The programmed heating led to the formation of uniform MSM-imprinted polymer layer with controllable thickness, and further improved the reproducibility of rebinding capacity. After removal of templates, recognition sites of MSM were exposed in the polymer layers. As a result, the maximum rebinding capacity was achieved with the use of optimal grafting ratio. There was also evidence indicating that the MSM-imprinted polymer nanoparticles compared with nonimprinted polymer nanoparticles had a higher selectivity and affinity to four structure-like sulfonylurea herbicides. Moreover, using the imprinted particles as dispersive solid-phase extraction (DSPE) materials, the recoveries of four sulfonylurea herbicides determined by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) were 80.2-99.5%, 83.8-102.4%, 77.8-93.3%, and 73.8-110.8% in the spiked soil, rice, soybean, and corn samples, respectively. These results show the possibility that the highly selective separation and enrichment of trace sulfonylurea herbicides from soil and crop samples can be achieved by the molecular imprinting modification at the surface of silica nanoparticles.
20678797	Primitive electronic waste (e-waste) recycling has become a growing environmental concern, and toxic heavy metals released from e-waste activities may continue to threaten the health of local people. To study the impact of heavy metals in people around e-waste sites, 349 people from e-waste recycling sites (exposure group) and 118 people from a green plantation (control group) were surveyed, and their urinary levels of lead (UPb), cadmium (UCd), manganese (UMn), copper (UCu), and Zinc (UZn) were assayed. Questionnaire surveys for risk factors were also performed and analyzed by using the Pearson correlation analysis. Results indicated that the levels of urinary Cd in both occupational dismantling people {GM(GSD) 0.72(0.71) ug/L} and non-occupational dismantling people {GM(GSD) 0.50(0.79) ug/L} were higher than the control group {GM(GSD) 0.27(0.85) ug/L}. Further analyses of correlations between urinary heavy metal levels and exposure factors in the exposed group revealed positive relationship between the duration of dismantling and the level of UPb (p < 0.05). Meanwhile, rice sources from local village have a positive correlation with the level of UPb and UCd (p < 0.01). Other factors, however, may also have influences on heavy metal burden, and not all urinary heavy metal levels can be contributed to e-waste dismantling exposure levels. Primitive e-waste recycling activities may contribute to the changes of urinary heavy metal levels and increase the health risk for those chronically working on e-waste dismantling.
20679159	To compare the palatability of 3 oral rehydration solutions. Prospective, blinded, randomized, 3-period, 3-treatment crossover trial. Emergency department of a tertiary care pediatric hospital. Sixty-six children aged 5 to 10 years with concerns unrelated to the gastrointestinal tract. Intervention Each participant consumed as much of each solution as they desired during a 15-minute period. The primary outcome was each child's rating of taste as measured on a 100-mm visual analog scale (worst taste, 0 mm; best taste, 100 mm). Secondary outcome measures were volume consumed, willingness to consume each liquid again, and the most favored liquid. All enrolled patients completed all 3 study periods. A significant carryover effect was detected for taste scores (P=.03), which were significantly different with and without adjustment for the carryover effect (P<.001). Unadjusted values were 65 mm for Pedialyte, 58 mm for Pediatric Electrolyte, and 23 mm for Enfalyte. Differences in mean volume consumed were not significant (Enfalyte, 15 mL; Pediatric Electrolyte, 17 mL; and Pedialyte, 22 mL [P=.44]). The proportion of children who would drink each solution in the future varied significantly between Enfalyte and Pediatric Electrolyte (odds ratio, 0.22; 95% confidence interval, 0.11-0.46) and between Enfalyte and Pedialyte (0.38; 0.25-0.57). There were differences in the identification of the best-tasting solution, with Pedialyte selected by 35 of 66 children (53%), Pediatric Electrolyte by 26 of 66 children (39%), and Enfalyte by 5 of 66 children (8%) (P<.001). Sucralose-sweetened oral rehydration solutions (Pedialyte and Pediatric Electrolyte) were significantly more palatable than was a comparable rice-based solution (Enfalyte). Trial Registration clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00689312.
20680180
20680181
20680414	Volatiles were extracted from rice plants of various growth stages with solid-phase microextraction (SPME) and analyzed by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS) to identify attractants that cause invasion of the rice leaf bug Trigonotylus caelestialium (Kirkaldy) into paddy fields. The composition of volatile blends produced by rice plants changed with rice development. In addition, volatile blend compositions differed between the panicles and the stems and leaves. The relative geranyl acetone content was high in all plant structures analyzed. In volatiles from whole plants in the fourth-leaf stage and panicles in the full-ripe stage, the relative content of green leaf volatiles (GLVs) was higher than that found in other rice plant structures. In contrast, relative terpene levels emitted from whole plants in the panicle-formation stage and by panicles and stems and leaves in the flowering stage were higher than those of other rice plant structures. However, the type of terpenes found differed between the panicles and the stems and leaves. Relative levels of β-caryophyllene in whole plants in the panicle-formation stage and panicles in the flowering stage were much higher than that in stems and leaves in the flowering stage. Our previous studies demonstrated that the odor from whole plants in the panicle-formation stage and panicles in the flowering stage is attractive to rice leaf bugs. Here, the attractiveness of β-caryophyllene to adult bugs was investigated in olfactometer assays. Adult females were attracted to β-caryophyllene at a concentration of 0.001%, which is approximately equivalent to the concentration produced by flowering rice panicles. However, β-caryophyllene also was present in the odor of whole plants in the fourth-leaf stage and in stems and leaves in the flowering stage. Furthermore, the amounts of this compound emitted from these structures were similar. Therefore, we suggest that the relative abundance of this compound in a volatile blend is important for attractance of the bugs.
20680611	Brown planthopper (Nilaparvata lugens Stål, BPH) is one of the most destructive insect pests of rice. Exploring resistance genes from diverse germplasms and incorporating them into cultivated varieties are critical for controlling this insect. The rice variety Swarnalata was reported to carry a resistance gene (designated Bph6), which has not yet been assigned to a chromosome location and the resistance mechanism is still unknown. In this study, we identified and mapped this gene using the F(2) and backcrossing populations and characterized its resistance in indica 9311 and japonica Nipponbare using near isogenic lines (NILs). In analysis of 9311/Swarnalata F(2) population, the Bph6 gene was located on the long arm of chromosome 4 between the SSR markers RM6997 and RM5742. The gene was further mapped precisely to a 25-kb region delimited between the STS markers Y19 and Y9; and the distance between these markers is 25-kb in Nipponbare genome. The Bph6 explained 77.5% of the phenotypic variance of BPH resistance in F(2) population and 84.9% in BC(2)F(2) population. Allele from Swarnalata significantly increased resistance to the BPH, resulted in a reduced damage score. In characterization of Bph6-mediated resistance, the BPH insects showed significant preference between NIL-9311 and 9311 in 3 h and between NIL-NIP and Nipponbare in 120 h after release. BPH growth and development were inhibited, and the insect's survival rates were lower on Bph6-NIL plants, compared with the parents 9311 and Nipponbare. The results indicate that the Bph6 exerted prolonged antixenotic and antibiotic effects in Bph6-NIL plants, and NIL-9311 plants showed a quicker and stronger effect toward BPH than NIL-NIP plants.
20682074	Different theories for the origin of the angiosperm hermaphrodite flower make different predictions concerning the overlap between the genes expressed in the male and female cones of gymnosperms and the genes expressed in the hermaphrodite flower of angiosperms. The Mostly Male (MM) theory predicts that, of genes expressed primarily in male versus female gymnosperm cones, an excess of male orthologs will be expressed in flowers, excluding ovules, while Out Of Male (OOM) and Out Of Female (OOF) theories predict no such excess. In this paper, we tested these predictions by comparing the transcriptomes of three gymnosperms (Ginkgo biloba, Welwitschia mirabilis and Zamia fisheri) and two angiosperms (Arabidopsis thaliana and Oryza sativa), using EST data. We found that the proportion of orthologous genes expressed in the reproductive organs of the gymnosperms and in the angiosperms flower is significantly higher than the proportion of orthologous genes expressed in the reproductive organs of the gymnosperms and in the angiosperms vegetative tissues, which shows that the approach is correct. However, we detected no significant differences between the proportion of gymnosperm orthologous genes expressed in the male cone and in the angiosperms flower and the proportion of gymnosperm orthologous genes expressed in the female cone and in the angiosperms flower. These results do not support the MM theory prediction of an excess of male gymnosperm genes expressed in the hermaphrodite flower of the angiosperms and seem to support the OOM/OOF theories. However, other explanations can be given for the 1:1 ratio that we found. More abundant and more specific (namely carpel and ovule) expression data should be produced in order to further test these theories.
20682335	Type B 8-keto trichothecenes are muco-active mycotoxins that are notable contaminants in cereal-based food stuffs. Epithelial responses are of primary concern during gastrointestinal exposure in human and animal intoxications. Therefore, optimized biomarkers to assess the specific action of trichothecenes on the human epithelial barrier are needed. In the present study, 8-keto trichothecenes were tested to trigger endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stresses that are evident as alteration of eukaryotic initiation factors 2α phosphorylation and other ER stress markers in human intestinal epithelial cells. Based on the ER stress-inducing activity of 8-keto trichothecenes, we developed a bio-monitoring method using intestinal epithelial cells constitutively expressing secretory alkaline phosphatase (SEAP) reporter, which can be used as a sensitive and selective indicator for monitoring ER stress in the epithelial barrier. Type B 8-keto trichothecenes suppressed the release of SEAP in a dose-dependent manner, showing a negative correlation between logarithm of toxin dose and SEAP activity. However, tested toxins did not affect SEAP enzymatic activity and mRNA levels, but reduced the cellular release of SEAP. Moreover, in order to correct the monitoring of 8-keto trichothecene in crop matrix, the bioassay was proven to work in standard cereal extract of corn and rice. The mechanism-based monitoring of 8-keto trichothecenes is promising as a supplementary analysis means of the presence of bioactive 8-keto trichothecenes, which are potentially exposed in human gut epithelia.
20682650	Tumor necrosis factor-related apoptosis-inducing ligand (TRAIL), a member of the tumor necrosis factor superfamily, is in clinical trials for cancer therapy, but its anticancer potential is limited by the development of resistance. We investigated the ability of tocotrienol (T3), an unsaturated vitamin E present in palm oil, rice bran, barley, oats, and wheat germ, to sensitize tumor cells to TRAIL. Results from esterase staining, colony formation, caspase activation, and sub-G(1) cell cycle arrest revealed that gamma-T3 can sensitize human colon cancer cells to TRAIL. When examined for the mechanism, we found that gamma-T3 significantly downregulated the expression of antiapoptotic proteins (c-IAP2 and Bcl-xL). We also found that gamma-T3, but not tocopherol, induced the expression of the TRAIL receptors death receptor (DR)-4 and DR5. This induction was not cell type specific, as upregulation was also found in pancreatic, kidney, and leukemic cells. Upregulation of DRs by gamma-T3 required the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and sequestering of ROS abolished both upregulation of the receptors and potentiation of TRAIL-induced apoptosis. Induction of DRs by gamma-T3 also required activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1 (ERK1), as silencing of ERK1 by specific siRNA abrogated the upregulation of TRAIL receptors. Further, induction of DRs by gamma-T3 required the expression of p53 and Bax, as no induction of the receptors was found in colon cancer cells with deletion of these genes. Overall, our results show that gamma-T3 sensitizes tumor cells to TRAIL by upregulating DRs through the ROS/ERK/p53 pathway and by downregulating cell survival proteins.
20683462	Short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) liberated by fermentation of complex carbohydrates might stimulate water and salt absorption, and provide energy. The aim of the study was to assess the number and proportion of faecal bacteria and the concentration of SCFAs of severely malnourished children with cholera receiving oral rehydration solution (ORS) containing glucose, amylase-resistant starch (ARS) or rice. Serial faecal samples were collected from 30 malnourished children with cholera until rehydration and partial nutritional recovery. SCFAs were identified and quantitated by high-performance liquid chromatography. In situ hybridization combined with flow cytometry was used to analyse the microbiota in the faeces. Before treatment the concentration of total SCFA in faecal sample of cholera children was found to be 4.7±0.6 mmol/kg and it increased steadily until 95.0±8.7 mmol/kg at day 28. Among different ORS groups, concentration was significantly higher in the Rice-ORS group at day 1 (P<0.011) and at day 2 (P<0.025). During recovery faecal output was significantly reduced and the number of bacteria also increased faster in the Rice-ORS group than in the glucose-ORS group at day 1 and day 2 (P<0.01), and a modest increase in bacterial number was observed in the glucose-ORS plus ARS group (day 1, P=0.07; day 2, P=0.09). Clinical recovery was associated with an increase in bacterial and SCFA concentrations with all three carbohydrates in ORS. However, the increases were significantly higher in children receiving Rice-ORS.
20683632	The recent release of the genome sequences of a number of crop and model plant species has made it possible to define the genome organisation and functional characteristics of specific genes and gene families of agronomic importance. For instance, Sorghum bicolor, maize (Zea mays) and Brachypodium distachyon genome sequences along with the model grass species rice (Oryza sativa) enable the comparative analysis of genes involved in plant defence. Germin-like proteins (GLPs) are a small, functionally and taxonomically diverse class of cupin-domain containing proteins that have recently been shown to cluster in an area of rice chromosome 8. The genomic location of this gene cluster overlaps with a disease resistance QTL that provides defence against two rice fungal pathogens (Magnaporthe oryzae and Rhizoctonia solani). Studies showing the involvement of GLPs in basal host resistance against powdery mildew (Blumeria graminis ssp.) have also been reported in barley and wheat. In this mini-review, we compare the close proximity of GLPs in publicly available cereal crop genomes and discuss the contribution that these proteins, and their genome sequence organisation, play in plant defence.
20684879	This study focused on effects of thermomechanical treatment, acid hydrolysis and enzymatic hydrolysis of rice straw fibre on its water resistant. Xylose and arabinose yields were 19.97% and 2.55%, respectively with thermomechanical treatment, 24.35% and 3.18% with acid hydrolysis, and 20.11% and 2.73% with enzymatic hydrolysis. The acid treatment dissolved hemicellulose significantly, leading to more fines and more voids in the surface of the rice straw fibre. The fines showed a higher water retention value (WRV) of 137.41% and exhibited higher swelling capacity. An increase in acid loading resulted in the increased WRV. The enzymatic hydrolysis increased the crystallinity of cellulose, but no significant correlation could be found between the chemical component and the water resistance of the rice straw fibre.
20685116	The effect of metal ions in ash on enzymatic hydrolysis of crop straw has not attracted sufficient attention. In present study, rice straw with high ash content was taken as an example to study the effect. It was found that the common cations of ash (K(+), Mg(2+), Ca(2+), Al(3+), Mn(2+), Fe(3+), Cu(2+), and Zn(2+)) all showed inhibitive effects on cellulase at different levels, except for the stimulative effects of Ca(2+) and Mg(2+) on beta-glucosidase. Interestingly, washing treatment, combined with steam explosion, could effectively remove the ash cations of rice straw. The kinetic study of enzymatic hydrolysis indicated that, compared with the unwashed steam-exploded rice straw (SERS), the maximal hydrolysis velocity of washed SERS was increased by 12.5%. Therefore, the removal of ash by washing could facilitate the enzymatic hydrolysis of SERS.
20685162	Solid-state culture of microorganisms is an important style of culture both in the traditional food industry and in the modern fermentation industry. We propose here a simple method for metabolite extraction from the solid-state fermentation of a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, which is known as rice-koji. To evaluate the efficiency of metabolite extraction, liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC/MS) was used for simultaneous detection of a wide range of metabolites including amino acids, organic acids and vitamins, which are of interest in rice-koji making. Among eleven different metabolite extraction methods tested, we found that extraction using acetonitrile/water (50:50), coupled with boiling at 70 °C for 5 min, was advantageous in terms of both extraction yield and metabolism quenching. We consider that our method provides a technical basis for metabolome analysis of a solid-state fermentation.
20685306	The developing world has many unique constraints to crop production and, lacking inputs, they are best overcome if solutions are seed borne. Classical breeding cannot overcome many of these constraints because the species have attained a 'genetic glass ceiling', the genes are not available within the species. Transgenics can supply the genes, but typically not as 'hand me down genes' from the developed world because of the unique problems: mainly parasitic weeds, and weedy rice, stem borers and post-harvest insects, viral diseases, tropical mycotoxins, anti-feedants, toxic heavy metals and mineral deficiencies. Public sector involvement is imperative for genetically engineering against these constraints, as the private biotechnology sector does not see the developing world as a viable market in most instances. Rice, sorghum, barley, wheat and millets have related weeds, and in certain cases, transgenic gene containment and/or mitigation is necessary to prevent establishment of transgenes in the weedy relatives.
20685968	Storage tissues such as seed endosperm and tubers store starch in the form of granules in the amyloplast. In the rice (Oryza sativa) endosperm, each amyloplast produces compound granules consisting of several dozen polyhedral, sharp-edged and easily separable granules; whereas in other cereals, including wheat (Triticum aestivum), barley (Hordeum vulgare) and maize (Zea mays), each amyloplast synthesizes one granule. Despite extensive studies on mutants of starch synthesis in cereals, the molecular mechanisms involved in compound granule synthesis in rice have remained elusive. In this study, we expressed green fluorescent protein (GFP) fused to rice Brittle1 (BT1), an inner envelope membrane protein, to characterize dividing amyloplasts in the rice endosperm. Confocal microscopic analyses revealed that a septum-like structure, or cross-wall, containing BT1-GFP divides granules in the amyloplast. Plastid division proteins including FtsZ, Min and PDV2 play significant roles not only in amyloplast division, but also in septum synthesis, suggesting that amyloplast division and septum synthesis are related processes that share common factors. We propose that successive septum syntheses which create sections inside the amyloplast and de novo granule synthesis in each section are primarily responsible for the synthesis of compound granules.
20685969	Diverse microorganisms are living as endophytes in plant tissues and as epiphytes on plant surfaces in nature. Questions about driving forces shaping the microbial community associated with plants remain unanswered. Because legumes developed systems to attain endosymbioses with rhizobia as well as mycorrhizae during their evolution, the above questions can be addressed using legume mutants relevant to genes for symbiosis. Analytical methods for the microbial community have recently been advanced by enrichment procedures of plant-associated microbes and culture-independent analyses targeting the small subunit of rRNA in microbial ecology. In this review, we first deal with interdisciplinary works on the global diversity of bacteria associated with field-grown soybeans with different nodulation genotypes and nitrogen application. A subpopulation of Proteobacteria in aerial parts of soybean shoots was likely to be regulated through both the autoregulation system for plant-rhizobium symbiosis and the nitrogen signaling pathway, suggesting that legumes accommodate a taxonomically characteristic microbial community through unknown plant-microbe communications. In addition to the community views, we then show multiphasic analysis of a beneficial rice endophyte for comparative bacterial genomics and plant responses. The significance and perspectives of community- and genome-based approaches are discussed to achieve a better understanding of plant-microbe interactions.
20686236	Glycemic index (GI) is an indicator of glucose absorption into the systemic circulation after ingestion of foods. However, the plasma glucose level is determined by not only the absorption of glucose, but also the disappearance of glucose which is regulated by the insulin response. The aim of this study was to estimate the values of GI and glucose utilization including the absorption and the disappearance of glucose (U(GLU)) in the rice vermicelli (RV) using the resulting glucose clearance (CL(GLU)). Fifteen healthy subjects participated in this study. Alterations in plasma glucose and insulin levels were determined after ingestion of a reference food (12.5, 25, 50, 75 g glucose) and the test foods (white rice, long grain rice and six RV products; 50 g available carbohydrate). Time-course changes in plasma glucose levels were analyzed using a simple kinetic model. The values of CL(GLU) were calculated using the resulting kinetic parameters. A standard curve in which the incremental area under the curve of plasma insulin levels (AUC(INS(ref))) was plotted against the resulting CL(GLU(ref)) was generated using the reference food. The values of GI and U(GLU) in the RV products were calculated from the observed clearances (CL(GLU)), and the predicted clearances (CL(GLU(predict))) respectively, which were estimated using the standard curve of AUC(INS(ref)) vs. CL(GLU(ref)). It was clarified that the values of U(GLU) in the RV products (20-57%) were lower than those of GI (35-62%).
20686747	Powdery mildew caused by Blumeria graminis f. sp. tritici is one of the most important wheat diseases worldwide and breeding for resistance using diversified disease resistance genes is the most promising approach to prevent outbreaks of powdery mildew. A powdery mildew resistance gene, originating from wild emmer wheat (Triticum turgidum var. dicoccoides) accessions collected from Israel, has been transferred into the hexaploid wheat line 3D232 through crossing and backcrossing. Inoculation results with 21 B. graminis f. sp. tritici races indicated that 3D232 is resistant to all of the powdery mildew isolates tested. Genetic analyses of 3D232 using an F(2) segregating population and F(3) families indicated that a single dominant gene, Ml3D232, confers resistance in the host seedling stage. By applying molecular markers and bulked segregant analysis (BSA), we have identified polymorphic simple sequence repeats (SSR), expressed sequence tags (EST) and derived sequence tagged site (STS) markers to determine that the Ml3D232 is located on chromosome 5BL bin 0.59-0.76. Comparative genetic analyses using mapped EST markers and genome sequences of rice and Brachypodium established co-linearity of the Ml3D232 genomic region with a 1.4 Mb genomic region on Brachypodium distachyon chromosome 4, and a 1.2 Mb contig located on the Oryza sativa chromosome 9. Our comparative approach enabled us to develop new EST-STS markers and to delimit the genomic region carrying Ml3D232 to a 0.8 cM segment that is collinear with a 558 kb region on B. distachyon. Eight EST markers, including an NBS-LRR analog, co-segregated with Ml3D232 to provide a target site for fine genetic mapping, chromosome landing and map-based cloning of the powdery mildew resistance gene. This newly developed common wheat germplasm provides broad-spectrum resistance to powdery mildew and a valuable resource for wheat breeding programs.
20687234	Oil production from rice bran, an undervalued by-product of rice milling, produces defatted rice bran (DRB) as a waste material. Although it is considered a less valuable product, DRB still contains useful substances such as phenolic compounds with antioxidant, UV-B-protecting and anti-tumour activities. In this study the phenolic acids in DRB were extracted with subcritical water at temperatures of 125, 150, 175 and 200 °C. Analysis of total phenolics using Folin-Ciocalteu reagent showed about 2-20 g gallic acid equivalent kg(-1) bran in the extracts. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed low contents of phenolic acids (about 0.4-2 g kg(-1) bran). Ferulic, p-coumaric, gallic and caffeic acids were the major phenolic acids identified in the extracts. Thermal analysis of the phenolic acids was also done. The thermogravimetric curves showed that p-coumaric, caffeic and ferulic acids started to decompose at about 170 °C, while gallic acid did not start to decompose until about 200 °C. Subcritical water can be used to hydrolyse rice bran and release phenolic compounds, but the high temperatures used in the extraction can also cause the decomposition of phenolic acids.
20687334	To better elucidate the functions of RpfFxoo, RpfCxoo and RpfGxoo, 3 proteins of diffusible signal factor (DSF)-dependent cell-cell signaling system in regulation of virulence expression of Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo). Deltarpfxoo, the gene deletion mutants were generated from PXO99(A), the wild-type strain of Xoo via marker-exchanging and DSF biosynthesis and extracellular polysaccharide production and virulence to rice of the mutants were assayed. rpfFxoo,rpfCxoo and rpfGxoo were cloned from the genomic DNA of PXO99(A) and the relative single or double mutants were constructed. Compared to PXO99(A), DSF production was deficient in deltarpfFxoo, deltarpfFCxoo and deltarpfFGxoo, while DSF was overproduced in deltarpfCxoo and reduced in deltarpfGxoo. DSF production of deltarpfFxcc, deltarpfCxcc and deltarpfGxcc, the mutants of X. campestris pv. campestris can be restored as XC1, the wild-type strain by in trans complementation of rpfFxoo, rpfCxoo and rpfGxoo. All the mutants except deltarpfFxoo were remarkably deficient in production All the mutants significantly exhibited the reduced bacterial virulence to rice. of extracellular polysaccharide. DSF signaling proteins RpfFxoo, RpfCxoo and RpfGxoo might function in regulation of DSF biogenesis and EPS production and bacterial virulence.
20687859	Hantavirus HTN.007 was originally isolated from a small-eared pygmy rice rat (Oligoryzomys microtis) captured in northeastern Peru. The results of analyses of nucleotide and amino acid sequence data in this study indicated that HTN.007 is a strain of Rio Mamoré virus (RIOMV) which is enzootic in small-eared pygmy rice rat populations in Bolivia. As such, the results of this study extend our knowledge of the geographical range of RIOMV and support the notion that the small-eared pygmy rice rat is the principal host of RIOMV.
20688151	In the study of gene expression, it is often desirable to distinguish transcript pools derived from different alleles present in the same organism. We report here an oligonucleotide tiling microarray designed to specifically target 518 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) between the two sequenced rice (Oryza sativa) subspecies indica and japonica. The tiling array included all 25-mer probes interrogating each SNP by placing the polymorphic site at all 25 possible positions within the probe. Through hybridization to a titration series in which the japonica- and indica-derived cDNA templates were mixed with altering proportions, a regression model was used to screen for diagnostic probe sets for each SNP. Our result indicates that 284 (55%) SNPs have at least one diagnostic probe pair suitable for distinguishing and quantifying the relative abundance of allele-specific transcripts. As a proof-of-concept, we analyzed allele-specific expression in reciprocal indica×japonica F(1) hybrids and detected imbalanced expression at approximately one third of the SNPs. These results were validated by RNA-sequencing and allele-specific real-time PCR experiments. Together, our work demonstrates the utility and advantages of the tiling array method in interrogating large numbers of SNPs for quantifying allele-specific gene expression.
20688280	A field experiment was conducted with paddy (Oryza sativa L.) irrigated with different concentrations (Control, 2.5, 5, 10, 25, 50, 75, 100 and 200 mg/l) of chromium. The changes in growth, yield, nutrient content and chromium accumulation in the paddy are reported. The growth of shoot, root, total leaf area, fresh weight, dry weight and yield of the paddy gradually decreased with increasing Cr concentration. Similarly, the uptake of macronutrients (N, P, K) and micronutrients (Mn, Cu, Zn, Fe) were also gradually decreased. However, the chromium accumulation gradually increased with the increasing concentrations of chromium. Among the aquatic plants tested, Eicchornia crassipes showed better performance in accumulating higher amount of chromium. Similarly, certain grasses and weeds such as Cyperus rotundus, Cyperus kylinga, Marselia quadrifolia and Ludwigia parvifloria were used for the phytoremediation of chromium polluted soil. Among them, Cyperus rotundus accumulated higher amount of chromium than the other plants tested.
20689747	Cholera is a severe diarrheal disease, caused by Vibrio cholerae, for which there has been no reproducible, nonsurgical animal model. Here, we report that orogastric inoculation of V. cholerae into 3-day-old rabbits pretreated with cimetidine led to lethal, watery diarrhea in virtually all rabbits. The appearance and chemical composition of the rabbit diarrheal fluid were comparable to those of the "rice-water stool" produced by cholera patients. As in humans, V. cholerae mutants that do not produce cholera toxin (CT) and toxin-coregulated pilus (TCP) did not induce cholera-like disease in rabbits. CT induced extensive exocytosis of mucin from intestinal goblet cells, and wild-type V. cholerae was predominantly found in close association with mucin. Large aggregates of mucin-embedded V. cholerae were observed, both attached to the epithelium and floating within the diarrheal fluid. These findings suggest that CT-dependent mucin secretion significantly influences V. cholerae's association with the host intestine and its exit from the intestinal tract. Our model should facilitate identification and analyses of factors that may govern V. cholerae infection, survival, and transmission, such as mucin. In addition, our results using nontoxigenic V. cholerae suggest that infant rabbits will be useful for study of the reactogenicity of live attenuated-V. cholerae vaccines.
20690030	Several biologically significant parameters that are related to rice tillering are closely associated with rice grain yield. Although identification of the genes that control rice tillering and therefore influence crop yield would be valuable for rice production management and genetic improvement, these genes remain largely unidentified. In this study, we carried out functional mapping of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for rice tillering in 129 doubled haploid lines, which were derived from a cross between IR64 and Azucena. We measured the average number of tillers in each plot at seven developmental stages and fit the growth trajectory of rice tillering with the Wang-Lan-Ding mathematical model. Four biologically meaningful parameters in this model--the potential maximum for tiller number (K), the optimum tiller time (t(0)), and the increased rate (r), or the reduced rate (c) at the time of deviation from t(0)--were our defined variables for multi-marker joint analysis under the framework of penalized maximum likelihood, as well as composite interval mapping. We detected a total of 27 QTLs that accounted for 2.49-8.54% of the total phenotypic variance. Nine common QTLs across multi-marker joint analysis and composite interval mapping showed high stability, while one QTL was environment-specific and three were epistatic. We also identified several genomic segments that are associated with multiple traits. Our results describe the genetic basis of rice tiller development, enable further marker-assisted selection in rice cultivar development, and provide useful information for rice production management.
20690081	Cyclins are primary regulators of the activity of cyclin-dependent kinases and play crucial roles in cell cycle progression in eukaryotes. Although extensive studies have revealed the roles of some cyclins and underlying mechanisms in plants, relatively few cyclins have been functionally analyzed in maize. We identified 59 cyclins in the maize genome, distributed on 10 chromosomes; these were grouped into six types by phylogenetic analysis. The cyclin genes in the maize genome went through numerous tandem gene duplications on five chromosomes. However, no segmental duplications, which occur in rice, were found on maize chromosomes. This information allows us to assess the position of plant cyclin genes in terms of evolution and classification, which will be useful for functional studies of maize cyclins.
20691120	The diversity and abundance of Anopheles larvae has significant influence on the resulting adult mosquito population and hence the dynamics of malaria transmission. Studies were conducted to examine larval habitat dynamics and ecological factors affecting survivorship of aquatic stages of malaria vectors in three agro-ecological settings in Mwea, Kenya. Three villages were selected based on rice husbandry and water management practices. Aquatic habitats in the 3 villages representing planned rice cultivation (Mbui Njeru), unplanned rice cultivation (Kiamachiri) and non-irrigated (Murinduko) agro-ecosystems were sampled every 2 weeks to generate stage-specific estimates of mosquito larval densities, relative abundance and diversity. Records of distance to the nearest homestead, vegetation coverage, surface debris, turbidity, habitat stability, habitat type, rice growth stage, number of rice tillers and percent Azolla cover were taken for each habitat. Captures of early, late instars and pupae accounted for 78.2%, 10.9% and 10.8% of the total Anopheles immatures sampled (n = 29,252), respectively. There were significant differences in larval abundance between 3 agro-ecosystems. The village with 'planned' rice cultivation had relatively lower Anopheles larval densities compared to the villages where 'unplanned' or non-irrigated. Similarly, species composition and richness was higher in the two villages with either 'unplanned' or limited rice cultivation, an indication of the importance of land use patterns on diversity of larval habitat types. Rice fields and associated canals were the most productive habitat types while water pools and puddles were important for short periods during the rainy season. Multiple logistic regression analysis showed that presence of other invertebrates, percentage Azolla cover, distance to nearest homestead, depth and water turbidity were the best predictors for Anopheles mosquito larval abundance. These results suggest that agricultural practices have significant influence on mosquito species diversity and abundance and that certain habitat characteristics favor production of malaria vectors. These factors should be considered when implementing larval control strategies which should be targeted based on habitat productivity and water management.
20693412	Auxin response factors (ARFs) are key regulators of plant growth and development. Through interaction with auxin/indole acetic acid (Aux/IAA) proteins, they influence the expression of auxin response genes. An ARF gene family has been predicted in rice, but the functions of the individual structural domains of the OsARFs remain obscure. Bioinformatics was used to analyse the position of the DNA-binding domain (DBD), middle region (MR), and C-terminal dimerization domain (CTD) of OsARFs, and experimentally confirmed the presence of a classical monopartite nuclear localization signal (NLS) in the DBD. The DBD was shown to contribute to nuclear localization of OsARF proteins in addition to its known DNA-binding function. Interactions between 14 integrated OsARFs and 15 OsIAA proteins were tested using yeast two-hybrid assays. It was found that eight OsARF activators interacted with the 15 OsIAA proteins, while six OsARF repressors did not. The interactions between the MR+CTD or CTD of 10 OsARFs and 15 OsIAA proteins were also tested and the results were consistent with those of each intact OsARF, although some slight differences in interaction intensity were observed by α-galactosidase quantitative assays. The truncated CTD of OsARF11 did not interact with any OsIAA, implying that the CTD is required for ARF-IAA dimerization, and that the MR influences the interaction intensity in yeast. A subset of the interactions in yeast were also observed in tobacco plants using firefly luciferase complementation imaging assays, indicating that these interactions are specific in plants, and might have a special role in the auxin signalling response. This study provides new insight into the structure of OsARF proteins and ARF-Aux/IAA interactions.
20693677	Curcuminoid synthase (CUS) from Oryza sativa is a plant-specific type III polyketide synthase that catalyzes the one-pot formation of bisdemethoxycurcumin by the condensation of two molecules of 4-coumaroyl-CoA and one molecule of malonyl-CoA. Recombinant CUS was expressed in Escherichia coli and crystallized by the sitting-drop vapour-diffusion method. The crystals belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a=72.7, b=97.2, c=126.2 A, alpha=gamma=90.0, beta=103.7 degrees. A diffraction data set was collected in-house to 2.5 A resolution.
20695529	Proteins comprising each of the two plant nonspecific lipid transfer protein (LTP) families, LTP1s and LTP2s, share similar folds and biological functions and are stabilized by four native disulfide bonds. Disulfide-scrambling experiments suggested that rice LTP2 is more thermostable than rice LTP1 and identified multiple disulfide-scrambled isomers for LTP1 but only one for LTP2. According to the potential energy evaluated in two GROMOS force fields, however, rice LTP1 is more stable than either rice or wheat LTP2. Moreover, the published rice LTP2 NMR model structure is found to be highly unfavorable. The reasons for this are investigated, and it is found that the rice LTP2 sequence is in fact more compatible with the more ordered X-ray structure of wheat LTP2 than with the published rice LTP2 NMR model structure. The proposed disulfide bond shuffling of rice LTP1, rice LTP2, and, for comparative purposes, wheat LTP2 and a homology model combining the rice LTP2 sequence with the wheat LTP2 structure is then investigated with a computational disulfide-scrambling technique.
20696037	MicroRNAs (miRNAs), which originate from precursor transcripts with stem-loop structures, are essential gene expression regulators in eukaryotes. We report 19 miRNA precursors in Arabidopsis that can yield multiple distinct miRNA-like RNAs in addition to miRNAs and miRNA*s. These miRNA precursor-derived miRNA-like RNAs are often arranged in phase and form duplexes with an approximately two-nucleotide 3'-end overhang. Their production depends on the same biogenesis pathway as their sibling miRNAs and does not require RNA-dependent RNA polymerases or RNA polymerase IV. These miRNA-like RNAs are methylated, and many of them are associated with Argonaute proteins. Some of the miRNA-like RNAs are differentially expressed in response to bacterial challenges, and some are more abundant than the cognate miRNAs. Computational and expression analyses demonstrate that some of these miRNA-like RNAs are potentially functional and they target protein-coding genes for silencing. The function of some of these miRNA-like RNAs was further supported by their target cleavage products from the published small RNA degradome data. Our systematic examination of public small-RNA deep sequencing data from four additional plant species (Oryza sativa, Physcomitrella patens, Medicago truncatula and Populus trichocarpa) and four animals (Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila) shows that such miRNA-like RNAs exist broadly in eukaryotes. We demonstrate that multiple miRNAs could derive from miRNA precursors by sequential processing of Dicer or Dicer-like proteins. Our results suggest that the pool of miRNAs is larger than was previously recognized, and miRNA-mediated gene regulation may be broader and more complex than previously thought.
20696908	Data from farmer-managed fields have not been used previously to disentangle the impacts of daily minimum and maximum temperatures and solar radiation on rice yields in tropical/subtropical Asia. We used a multiple regression model to analyze data from 227 intensively managed irrigated rice farms in six important rice-producing countries. The farm-level detail, observed over multiple growing seasons, enabled us to construct farm-specific weather variables, control for unobserved factors that either were unique to each farm but did not vary over time or were common to all farms at a given site but varied by season and year, and obtain more precise estimates by including farm- and site-specific economic variables. Temperature and radiation had statistically significant impacts during both the vegetative and ripening phases of the rice plant. Higher minimum temperature reduced yield, whereas higher maximum temperature raised it; radiation impact varied by growth phase. Combined, these effects imply that yield at most sites would have grown more rapidly during the high-yielding season but less rapidly during the low-yielding season if observed temperature and radiation trends at the end of the 20th century had not occurred, with temperature trends being more influential. Looking ahead, they imply a net negative impact on yield from moderate warming in coming decades. Beyond that, the impact would likely become more negative, because prior research indicates that the impact of maximum temperature becomes negative at higher levels. Diurnal temperature variation must be considered when investigating the impacts of climate change on irrigated rice in Asia.
20697715	In a previous study, we evaluated the effects of inoculating rice plants with the phototrophic purple nonsulfur bacterium Rhodobacter capsulatus (Rc) on growth and yield of rice in pots and lysimeter experiments and the results obtained have been highly encouraging. In this study, we carried out two field experiments: one in the experimental farm of the Faculty of Agriculture, Fayoum University, and the second in a farmer's field in Kafr El-sheikh, to assess the effects of Rc on growth and yield of rice in comparison and in combination with chemical nitrogen fertilizer (CNF) and farmyard manure. The results indicated that both biological and grain yields in all the Rc inoculated treatments were significantly higher than those in the uninoculated corresponding treatments in both fields. With regard to grain yield, the major factor for determining the effectiveness of any agricultural treatment, inoculation with Rc in combination with 50% of the recommended CNF rate gave a grain yield that was statistically equivalent to that obtained with 100% of the recommended CNF rate. These results provide a clear evidence for the potential of Rc as biofertilizer for flooded rice under field conditions.
20697765	Grain dietary fiber content in wheat not only affects its end use and technological properties including milling, baking and animal feed but is also of great importance for health benefits. In this study, integration of association genetics (seven detected loci on chromosomes 1B, 3A, 3D, 5B, 6B, 7A, 7B) and meta-QTL (three consensus QTL on chromosomes 1B, 3D and 6B) analyses allowed the identification of seven chromosomal regions underlying grain dietary fiber content in bread wheat. Based either on a diversity panel or on bi-parental populations, we clearly demonstrate that this trait is mainly driven by a major locus located on chromosome 1B associated with a log of p value >13 and a LOD score >8, respectively. In parallel, we identified 73 genes differentially expressed during the grain development and between genotypes with contrasting grain fiber contents. Integration of quantitative genetics and transcriptomic data allowed us to propose a short list of candidate genes that are conserved in the rice, sorghum and Brachypodium chromosome regions orthologous to the seven wheat grain fiber content QTL and that can be considered as major candidate genes for future improvement of the grain dietary fiber content in bread wheat breeding programs.
20697875	Topsoil soil organic carbon (SOC) data were collected from long-term Chinese agro-ecosystem experiments presented in 76 reports with measurements over 1977 and 2006. The data set comprised 481 observations (135 rice paddies and 346 dry croplands) of SOC under different fertilization schemes at 70 experimental sites (28 rice paddies and 42 dry croplands). The data set covered 16 dominant soil types found in croplands across 23 provinces of mainland China. The fertilization schemes were grouped into six categories: N (inorganic nitrogen fertilizer only), NP (compound inorganic nitrogen and phosphorus fertilizers), NPK (compound inorganic nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers), O (organic fertilizers only), OF (combined inorganic/organic fertilization) and Others (other unbalanced fertilizations such as P only, K only, P plus K and N plus K). Relative change in SOC content was analyzed, and rice paddies and dry croplands soils were compared. There was an overall temporal increase in topsoil SOC content, and relative annual change (RAC, g kg(-1) yr(-1)) ranged -0.14-0.60 (0.13 on average) for dry cropland soils and -0.12-0.70 (0.19 on average) for rice paddies. SOC content increase was higher in rice paddies than in dry croplands. SOC increased across experimental sites, but was higher under organic fertilization and combined organic/inorganic fertilizations than chemical fertilizations. SOC increase was higher under balanced chemical fertilizations with compound N, P and K fertilizers than unbalanced fertilizations such as N only, N plus P, and N plus K. The effects of specific rational fertilizations on SOC increase persisted for 15 years in dry croplands and 20 years in rice paddies, although RAC values decreased generally as the experiment duration increased. Therefore, the extension of rational fertilization in China's croplands may offer a technical option to enhance C sequestration potential and to sustain long-term crop productivity.
20698130	This study is a systematic overview of data on use of wild and semi-wild edible plants in nutrition of people in 1430 days of the siege of Sarajevo during aggression on Bosnia and Herzegovina (1992-1995). The author of this study spent all that time in Sarajevo. In 1993, the author prepared a survival program for people that included usage of edible wild plants. In addition, he conducted a detailed survey, including special interviews, on 630 people of average age 37.4 years (55% residential inhabitants, the rest were refuges), 310 males and the rest were females. According to survey, 91 species of mostly wild plants and three species of fungus were used: Küchneromyces mutabilis, Armillariella mellea and Coprinus comatus. Wild vegetables included 49 species, spices 24, wild fruits 16, and 2 species of bread-plants. They belong to 26 plants communities, and grew on 24 different habitats (urban surfaces, river coasts, low forest and scrubs, meadows and rocky grasslands). The 156 plant parts (leaves, young branches, fruit, flower, seed, root and rhizome) from 91 plant species were used. Vegetables were dominant category of use (soups, pottages, sauces) with 80 ways of preparation (30.53%), then salads 41 (15.65%), spices 39 (14.89%), different beverages 38 (14.50%), sweets 21 (8.02%), nutritive teas 15 (5.73%), and other preparations. In order to improve conventional food (war pasta, rice, lentils, old beans) people used spices made from different wild plants.
20698275	Main constituents (lignin, cellulose and hemicelullose) were extracted from rice straw, and characterized by elemental analysis and Diffuse Reflectance Infrared Fourier Transform Spectroscopy (DRIFT). Sorption of pyrene on rice straw and its main constituents was studied. The results showed that there are great differences in the properties of the three constituents, with lignin of higher aromaticity and lower polarity, while cellulose and hemicellulose of greater polarity and aliphaticity. Sorption of pyrene also differed a lot due to the varied characteristics of the sorbents. All isotherms were fitted well with Freundlich equation. Lignin showed the greatest sorption capacity for pyrene, with K(F) being 5.04 x 10(4), approximately 100 times greater than that of cellulose. Sorption of pyrene on hemicellulose was even a little smaller than that on cellulose. At low solute aqueous concentration (c(e) = 0.01 S(w)), the sorption of pyrene on rice straw was controlled by lignin, and sorption coefficient (K(d)) was a little smaller than that predicted by the K(d) value on lignin and its mass fraction. This suggested that some sorption sites such as alkyl and aromatic centers were covered when the lignin existed mixed in the rice straw. But at high concentration (c(e) = 0.5 S(w)), the K(d) value of pyrene on rice straw was markedly greater than the sum of those on three constituents, suggesting that partition on other constituents could not be neglected. Moreover, pyrene sorption isotherm on lignin was nonlinear (Freundlich exponent, n = 0.89), while sorption on the other three sorbents was more linear (n > 0.96). A negative relationship between n and aromaticity was observed, which illustrates that specific effect related with aromaticity is the main reason for nonlinearity. Organic carbon normalized sorption coefficients (K(oc)) increased with increasing aromaticity and decreased with increasing polarity of the sorbents.
20698282	The effects of long-term (16 years) fertilization on the diversity and community structure of soil ammonia-oxidizing gene (amoA) and hydroxylamine-oxidizing gene (hao) in paddy soil were evaluated using the methods of polymerase chain reaction, cloning and sequencing. The soil samples were collected from the treatments of NPK (CK) and NPK plus rice straw (SR) of the long-term field fertilization experiment in Taoyuan Agro-ecological Experimental Station. The Shannon Indices showed that the diversity of amoA and hao in SR treatment was lower than that in CK, and LUBSHUFF statistical analyses demonstrated that the sequence compositions of both amoA and huo libraries were significantly different between CK and SR. The phylogenetic trees indicated that some clusters appeared in SR treatment but were not detected in CK treatment. As to amoA, only Nitrosospira besides the uncultured amoA sequences were cloned from the two treatments, while no Nitrosomonas species were detected. As to hao, the strains from Silicibacter and Methylococcus were dominant in CK, while in SR the strains from Nitrosospira and Nitrosomonas were dominant. Sum up, the long-term rice straw application has caused a remarkable impact on the diversity and community structure on Nitrosobacteria.
20698285	To understand the characteristics of ligninolytic enzymes sorption and transport in different compost substances, ligninolytic enzymes adsorption on soil, vegetable leaf, rice straw and chaff was comparatively studied through batch jar tests and relevant kinetics and isotherm equilibrium were discussed as well as a column experiment was performed to study the process of transport. The results showed that the sorption efficiency was depended on the sorts of substances. The adsorptive capacities of soil, vegetable leaf, rice straw and chaff to lignin peroxidase (LiP) were 1.22 U x g(-1), 1.27 U x g(-1), 1.13 U x g(-1), 1.22 U x g(-1) and to manganese peroxidase (MnP) were 5.09 U x g(-1), 4.88 U x g(-1), 4.43 U x g(-1), 3.95 U x g(-1), respectively. Comparing the kinetic models of LiP and MnP adsorption, the pseudo-second-order reaction model (R2 0.973-0.999 7) was the best of the models. Elovich equation was a bit better than pseudo-first-order kinetic which was the worst. The equilibrium data could be fitted well with Langmuir model while it could not satisfied with Freundlich model. The adsorptive saturation of soil, vegetable leaf, rice straw and chaff to LiP were 1.23 U x g(-1), 1.30 U x g(-1), 1.17 U x g(-1), 1.14 U x g(-1) and to MnP were 5.70 U x g(-1), 5.19 U x g(-1), 4.73 U x g(-1), 4.14 U x g(-1). LiP and MnP had good transport capability in straw and chaff to move to the deepest layer of 10 mL while remained in the superficial layers in soil and vegetable leaf.
20698901	The brown planthopper, Nilaparvata lugens, is a serious pest of rice crops throughout Asia and exhibits wing dimorphism, with brachypterous adults having reduced wings and macropterous adults possessing fully developed wings. To understand the reproductive strategies in two wing-morphs of this insect, the transcript encoding the major yolk protein precursor, vitellogenin (Vg), was cloned. The complete mRNA transcript was 6314 bp, which encodes a protein of 2063 residues including an 18-residue putative signal peptide. Analysis of the mature protein revealed two vitellogenin-N (or lipoprotein amino-terminal) domains near the N-terminus and a von Willebrand factor type D domain near the C-terminus. In addition, a highly conserved motif GL/ICG, and a number of cysteine residues were identified near the C-terminus. Northern blot analysis identified a ∼6.8 kb Vg gene transcript that was expressed exclusively in the adult female fat body cells. The expression profile revealed that the Vg gene starts to be expressed earlier (on day 3) in brachypters as compared to macropters where the mRNA transcript was observed on day 4. However, in both morphs, the amount of Vg mRNA increased to reach high levels during vitellogenic periods [from day 4 (in brachypters) and day 5 (in macropters) and onwards]. Reflecting the RNA transcription pattern, the Vg signal was detected by immunoblotting on day 3 and day 4 in haemolymph of brachypterous and macropterous females, respectively, and that was increased every day and remained high during the vitellogenic periods. Furthermore, the topical application of juvenile hormone (JH) III had up-regulated the Vg gene expression suggesting that the Vg gene is regulated by JH in N. lugens. In addition, it was demonstrated by Southern blot analysis that there exists a single copy of the gene in the N. lugens genome. A delayed trend in expression (of both the transcript and the protein) demonstrated by macropterous females in the present studies supports the hypothesis of prereproductive long distance migration in this wing-dimorphic species.
20699001	Iron (Fe) is the most limiting micronutrient element for crop production in alkaline soils. A number of transcription factors involved in regulating Fe uptake from soil and transport in plants have been identified. Analysis of transcriptome data from Oryza sativa grown under limiting Fe conditions reveals that transcript abundances of several genes encoding transcription factors are altered by Fe availability. These transcription factors are putative regulators of Fe deficiency responses. Transcript abundance of one nuclear located basic helix-loop-helix family transcription factor, OsIRO3, is up-regulated from 25- to 90-fold under Fe deficiency in both root and shoot respectively. The expression of OsIRO3 is specifically induced by Fe deficiency, and not by other micronutrient deficiencies. Transgenic rice plants over-expressing OsIRO3 were hypersensitive to Fe deficiency, indicating that the Fe deficiency response was compromised. Furthermore, the Fe concentration in shoots of transgenic rice plants over-expressing OsIRO3 was less than that in wild-type plants. Analysis of the transcript abundances of genes normally induced by Fe deficiency in OsIRO3 over-expressing plants indicated their induction was markedly suppressed. A novel Fe regulated bHLH transcription factor (OsIRO3) that plays an important role for Fe homeostasis in rice was identified. The inhibitory effect of OsIRO3 over-expression on Fe deficiency response gene expression combined with hypersensitivity of OsIRO3 over-expression lines to low Fe suggest that OsIRO3 is a negative regulator of the Fe deficiency response in rice.
20699562	We found renin inhibitory activity in rice. The physico-chemical data on the isolated inhibitors were identical to those of oleic acid and linoleic acid. Oleic acid and linoleic acid competitively inhibited renin activity, with K(i) values of 15.8 and 19.8 microM respectively. Other unsaturated free fatty acids also inhibited renin activity, but saturated fatty acids had no effect on it.
20699575	Rice plants are known to accumulate starch in leaf sheaths and culms, and in some cultivars significant amounts of starch are present at the mature stage. This can be considered as potential feedstock for the recovery of fermentable sugars. We isolated starches from the culms of cultivars Yumeaoba, Koshihikari, and Leafstar to investigate their structural and physical features. Yumeaoba culm starch contained 20.2% amylose, whereas Koshihikari and Leafstar contained 25.8% and 25.2%. Yumeaoba culm starch was found by chain-length distribution analysis to contain higher amounts of short chains, resulting in lower gelatinization temperature by 7 degrees C, as compared to Koshihikari and Leafstar. Consequently, the rate of enzymatic hydrolysis of Yumeaoba culm starches reached maximum at a lower temperature than Leafstar. Rice culm starch, with a lower gelatinization temperature, can provide an advantageous material for feedstock for bioethanol production in terms of energy conservation.
20701283	Selenium, an essential micronutrient for humans, is insufficient in dietary intake for millions of people worldwide. Rice as the most popular staple food in the world is one of the dominant selenium (Se) sources for people. The distribution and translocation of Se from soil to grain were investigated in a Se-rich environment in this study. The Se levels in soils ranged widely from 0.5 to 47.7 mg kg(-1). Selenium concentration in rice bran was 1.94 times higher than that in corresponding polished rice. The total Se concentrations in the rice fractions were in the following order: straw>bran>whole grain>polished rice>husk. Significant linear relationships between different rice fractions were observed with each other, and Se in the soil has a linear relationship with different rice fractions as well. Se concentration in rice can easily be predicted by soil Se concentrations or any rice fractions and vice versa according to their linear relationships. In all rice samples for Se speciation, SeMet was the major Se species, followed by MeSeCys and SeCys. The average percentage for SeMet (82.9%) and MeSeCys (6.2%) was similar in the range of total Se from 2.2 to 8.4 mg kg(-1) tested. The percentage of SeCys decreased from 6.3 to 2.8%, although its concentration elevated with the increase in total Se in rice. This could be due to the fact that SeCys is the precursor for the formation of other organic Se compounds. The information obtained may have considerable significance for assessing translocation and accumulation of Se in plant.
